So in this section where to talk about virtual networking in some more detail now as we saw in the last
section virtual networking is sort of the backbone that allows resources to talk to each other.
In different regions or in the same region and there's various technologies Microsoft is offering to
allow us to do that.
Let's start by creating a virtual network if we go into the virtual network search box here within the
create new resource.
We can see that we're given the option of creating a virtual network a reminder that we wanted to create
resource manager resources only I'm going to create now just like most things we have to give it a name.
So we're going to call this new net the first big decision we have to make is this concept of an address
space.
Now Microsoft allows us to define because this is a private address space we can use basically any IP
address IP address range that we want the Internet authorities have reserved.
The 10 dot IP addresses for private use.
So you will not find a public IP address that starts with a 10 dot.
There are some other ranges like one ninety two and sixty 68 etc. But the 10 dot is the entire a block
that's reserved for private usage.
But this doesn't stop us if we wanted to make this one 90 0 0 0.
We could do it because that's a private IP address and there's no way any computer in the world would
be able to connect to this virtual network because this is a private network.
So I actually go ahead and do that feeling a bit emboldened by this go into my subscription I'm going
to create a new resource group for this so let's call this a Z new R G 200.
Right.
Hopefully you haven't used that before put it that network into a location let's use instead of west
us.
Let's put this in Canada.
Canada e each virtual network has to have one subnet minimum now a subnet as the name sort of implies
is a is a part of the virtual network.
Okay.
So by default given the name default.
Well we can call that whatever we want call that front end.
In this case now the subnet is going to be again a part of the overall address space.
So I could choose the entire address space and if I did that it would be no more room for any other
subnets which is which is fine strategy if you know for sure that you're not going to need to add any
more subnets to this network.
The reason why you would want to add subnets is if you need to subdivide your network into tiers like
front end middle tier back end and you want to have a firewalls protecting the tiers so you can create
an entire network that has that has pieces to it and you can create different servers in each one and
protect them through using network security groups and firewalls.
So let's say we want to create a subnet but we don't want to use the entire address range this address
naming scheme is called C I D R and it's an alternative to what used to be like a block of B Block C
block etc. The way that you can remember this is that the slash eight block is basically the equivalent
of what used to be called in a block you can see Microsoft is actually listing out the range.
So this should be not one 90 days 0 0 0 to 1 90 dot 255 255 255.
And they're letting us know that there are 16 million IP addresses in this range.
So such 8 is clearly a huge number and hopefully will never reach as many resources that we possibly
could if I made this the slash 16.
Then the tip here reduces to from 1 90 0 0 0 to 0 to 1 9 8 0 0 0 255 255 and now it's only sixty five
thousand IP addresses that's still quite a lot.
So every time you add eight to your slash you actually go down to.
Now this is a C Block pay.
So basically we we have this the C block which is the slash 16 and then we can we can basically say
slash 24 which gets us down to only 256 addresses.
If we did it like this we would have room in this network for many many other subnets.
OK.
We can just go when ninety dot 1 1 data 2 1 3 that's fine with me.
We can actually if we reduce this by 1 it doubles the number of IP addresses.
Right so now denial of service protection basic is included for free and basic denial service protection
is basically going to make it hard for people to send traffic to this in a malicious manner.
If you upgrade to the standard plan that's a paid service and then it does more adaptive tuning.
It lets you know attack notification if you're expecting denial of service attacks or this virtual network
will be exposed to the Internet in some way.
You may want to consider standard dos protection otherwise you go with what Microsoft considers basic
service endpoints.
Now this is a pretty cool security feature we can basically open up this virtual network to connect
with some of the built in Azure services exclusively so I can say this network connects to Microsoft
a secret database service bus key vault Cosmos D.B. etc. and it basically is a secure channel between
this network and that service that would not the traffic would not travel over the open Internet without
it.
Then the traffic that goes from these addresses into resources on this network will travel potentially
over an open network.
Also we get this choice of opening up a firewall onto this network and Microsoft will actually allow
us to create a brand new subnet for this firewall.
And it's basically going to choose the standard SKU and there are going to be costs associated with
this.
So Mark we're not going to do firewalls for now.
So you can see it's very simple to create your first virtual network.
There's no cost to it either.
If you didn't choose a standard protection or enable a firewall.
So I'm just going to click Create and as you can see that only took twenty three seconds for that to
do that.
Now if we go inside of the resource we get lots more options in terms of setting up our virtual network.
Now by default we don't have any devices connected to it of course go into the subnet section.
We can see the front end subnet we created using slash twenty three.
Address range which is 512 possible addresses from 1 9 0 0 0 to 1 90 dot 0 dot one dot 255.
Right.
So that's 2 2 1 4 2 5 address blocks.
But you can see that instead of saying five hundred and twelve available there's only five hundred and
seven.
There are five reserved IP addresses in every subnet.
And so whatever the total number of IP addresses that you reserved five of them are going to be taken
away.
This is important when you're using some of the smaller address ranges.
So if you're reserving yourself only 8 IP addresses five of them would be taken away and you would only
have three.
So keep that in mind when you're doing the math on that.
It's very easy to create ourselves another subnet.
I'm going to click plus and I'm going to call this one back end.
Now remember we created the one that he does 0 0 0 0 range for ourselves and we reserved 0 in one for
our four up front end.
So if I was to then make dial so a twenty three we would go two and three for this back and subnet number
five are reserved.
Now we can see some more options in terms of choosing a our security group which we'll talk about in
a second or defining a round table.
Again we have the same question in terms of service and points if we want to enable that or this subnet
delegation which we can do as well but we're all going to leave that to the defaults and click OK.
Again it should only take seconds and at the time that I spoke it it says it's created and there we
go now we have two separate subnets on the same virtual network that we can add resources into.
And again we can start to set different firewall settings different security on these things.
We'll come back in the next lesson and we'll continue with this.
