Now we started off this section talking about these IP addresses being private.
These IP addresses are not accessible from the public Internet.
But how would you go about creating public IP address.
What we're gonna do is we're going to go into this plus sign here for new and we're gonna say public
public IP we'll search for that
and right off the bat we've got this concept of public IP address offered by Microsoft so let's choose
that they're going to say create so we can now choose to create a public IP address.
I'm going to call this is it a shady new public IP 3.
Now we do have options in terms of SKU and in terms of pricing.
OK public IP skew much much skew of the load balancer.
So if you're using a standard load balancer you get a standard public IP and a basic little bouncer
gets a basic Microsoft does support IP B6 at the load balancer level the virtual machines and other
resources do not support IP V4.
But if you buy Peavey 6 but if you do need to use that then you can have to put a load balancer in front
in order for IP 6 to travel into a virtual machine because that will convert that to an IP for communication.
We get the choices between a dynamic IP address and a static IP address.
Now a static IP address is an IP address that never changes.
And this is good for when you want to use that IP address in some kind of setting like a firewall that
needs to be opened up or a DNS registration when your create a custom domain name and you need that
IP address to live within the DNS system.
So you only really need a static IP address if you need to then registered that somewhere the regular
domain name system will take care of a dynamic IP address basically what we're gonna do is give this
IP address a name and then we can use that name everywhere that we need to we can choose a a connection
opening timeout.
So basically four minutes applies the default that clients do not need to use keep alive messages in
order to keep the communication open.
This is where you give it a fully qualified name.
Since we're creating this public IP address in central U.S. region then the fully qualified domain name
is something that central U.S. cloud after Azure dot com.
And so I'm going to say my new public IP probably a terrible domain name but this is the one that you're
going to get for free.
Again you can map this to a custom domain name if you need to using your domain name register a C name
record would be able to map your custom domain into something like this or you can use Azure DNS system
which we'll talk about in a bit as well.
Now we're gonna get an IP V4 for free.
But do we want an IP v 6 version.
We can we can go ahead and create that if we wanted it going to go in my subscription I'm going to put
this into my new Resource Group Two hundred and I've been putting this stuff into Canada so I'm going
to move this to Canada East as well and I'm going to say create.
So that's going to go off and get me a public IP address in Canada East region.
