Now we can compare and contrast what we just saw with how easy it is to create customers, to be in
the type of data that you can put into Cosmos DB with Azure SQL database.
And so Azure SQL database is the basically equivalent of a SQL Server that you might run on your own
premises in the cloud.
Now, it's not 100 percent identical so that the SQL database does run on the SQL Server engine.
But there are some subtle differences.
And depending on your usage of SQL Server and the types of settings that you're you're using in the
features, it might not be 100 percent compatible.
So we're going to create a new SQL DB.
I'm going to call it a Xenu sequel, D.B., we have to give the database a name now, unlike the Cosmos
DB, where you have an account and then a database to contain or metaphor.
Addressing would be actually has a server database metaphor, so a database exists, but it must run
on a server, so we have to create a server for it as long as it allows me to.
The server name is already in use.
So I'm going to call it a new sequel server.
We do need an admin, login and password.
So I'm going to type one out here.
And the server runs in a location.
OK, and so remember, in causeless TB, we created the account, but we didn't get to create the database
until we actually had created the account.
Well, this time we're screening the server and database simultaneously.
There is a concept within SQL database called the Elastic Pool.
So by default, if you create a single database that's single database, has a provision set of resources
and you're paying a specific amount for that provision and every database you create is going to have
its own resources and its own cost.
The elastic pool allows you to purchase a bigger set of resources and then all the databases end up
sharing those resources.
This would be beneficial where you might have some spiciness, where demand is going to spike for a
brief moment on one of the databases, but not all of the databases.
So in this way, you can have a smaller total pool of resources compared to having having to provision
a complete server for each of the databases.
We're not going to do a lot of people right now.
Now, SQL database has a rather confusing purchase model now.
Originally, it was just basic, standard and premium.
A basic database is great for testing.
It's as cheap as five U.S. dollars a month.
A standard database then gets into higher performance requirements.
There is this concept of the ==database transaction unit DTU==.
You remember when we were dealing with virtual machines or we dealing with services.
There's the ACU, which is the compute units.
Well, this DTU was also very similar.
It's just a ==combination of CPU speed and the number of cores and the amount of memory for that machine all in one sort of metric==. So a basic server would have like a five D to use. And then you go up to standard, you can go 10, 20, 50, 100, and it's all relative. So if your server is ten times as powerful as a five D2 server now, the difference between standard and premium is not necessarily on the T use because you can have a five hundred to you or four hundred
or eight hundred to you standard and you end up with five hundred or a thousand on premium. But what you get with premium is that you're getting premium storage. It's a lot more performance focused.
So I'm going to create a 10 D2 standard server, I don't need that much in terms of storage, we can see on the bottom right here that they're sort of estimating the price at around twenty dollars Canadian
or fifteen dollars per month.
Now, that's the one type of purchase.
There is also what's called Vikor.
So Microsoft did try to make this very simple by having to use you didn't really have to think about
the details of what that means, but I guess some customers want to know the details.
And so they created this Vikor model.
So the vector model, if we're talking about the provisions section, is that you can basically choose
the number, of course.
So you've got two, four, six, eight, 10 course.
And so the number, of course, becomes what you're basing it on, not based on DTA use, OK?
And so your cause and memory is basically going to be independently selectable and then your database
size can be from small to big and you're paying you see the database storage has a very specific pricing.
I can go down to what was a fifty fifty before and so the storage itself is going to be sixty dollars
a month.
Not including the number of course.
OK, now there is a Cervalis model.
This is relatively new and this is where you can have a SQL database that only charges per execution
billed per second actually.
And it's you can potentially scale up and scale down based on on demand.
And so your your costs could be very low if your database isn't used.
So I'm going to go back to the basic standard model, to a standard server.
Now, we do have those options like we do in a lot of places where you have no access, public access,
private access of configure this with no access, because then we have to show you how to enable public
access.
We can have a sample database, so, for instance, I'm going to pick the adventure works data as a
sample, and there is advanced security, which will include advancer protection and others.
That's about twenty dollars a month.
So let's go and create the secret database.
