All right, so the deployment completed and we can see here that we've got a the server and the database.
We can see that not yet, but the server took about forty nine seconds to create and the database took
about a minute.
So we're looking at a two minute operation compared to 15 minutes for the cosmos to.
Now we can go to the resource.
Now you can see know it's very it's going to be very similar.
We've got a server name.
We've got things that we can do right off the homepage here.
Now, one of the things we did when we created this was we ensured that you couldn't connect to it.
So this even though the server name is fully qualified, when I go to connect to it, it's going to
basically give me a message, because it's not it's not actually.
There's no public endpoint.
Now, SQL database works off of a firewall metaphore, and so if we go down to the settings here under
security, it says firewalls and virtual networks, we can see that basically there's nothing within
the firewall that will allow traffic through and we're not even allowing other Azure services to access
it.
So as of right now, nothing is allowed to access this.
Now, one of the things I can do is I can whitelist my own IP address.
And so this IP addresses the computer that I'm using to record this.
And by clicking the ad client IP and clicking save, then my own computer will be able to connect to
this SQL Server.
So if I used SQL Management Studio, that will be able to do that.
Now, let's go back up to the overview screen here, and if I scroll a little bit, I can see the remember
we have the server and we have the database.
These are actually two concepts.
There are two resources within the resource group.
Even I can see that the database is a standard as zero.
If I wanted to create another database, I can.
And again, it would increase my costs because it has its own pricing, even if it's running on the
same quote unquote server.
Let's click on the server, the database so we can go into the database level.
So we're always going to be having with SQL database this dichotomy of the server itself being its own
thing and the database, its being its own thing.
Now, let's go down to the configuration tab here within the database now.
We saw that we chose a 10 D2 server.
We can scale this right so we can say, you know what, 10 doesn't seem to be enough.
We can move up to 20.
How would I know that 10 is not enough?
Typically, you're going to have graphics here.
So the compute utilization here is started at five percent and it's down down to one, two percent range
over time.
When you're using this database, you might see 30 percent, 40 percent, 50 percent, and you might
start to get worried that your database is not going to have enough power for the amount of queries
being sent to it.
So you can go into configuration here and very easily basically scale the database.
I can go from 10 to 20 and say apply and then it's going to do that scaling and it's almost seamless.
What it's doing at this point is it's still accepting queries, but it's caching them.
It's switching over the backend from the 22 to the 20 and then it's going to process the cache.
And so this is seamless to the user and it only takes a few minutes.
And it's pretty cool that you wouldn't think in an on premise environment that scaling your SQL Server
database is that easy, but scaling an astronomical database really is pretty easy.
Now, Azure SQL database really doesn't have an auto scale type metaphore in that you're not really
expected to move from 10 to 20 to 50 to 20 to 10 up and down with demand.
OK, so there is a serverless option and that might be more scalable in that sense.
But in the standard offering a provisioned offering you've chosen your to use, you can map that if
it's too much, you can scale down and if it's not enough, you can scale up.
It's not really supposed to be something that you scale minute to minute.
OK, now they also have pretty cool, agile application option.
So we saw with cousin Stevie that you had a map metaphore and you can choose from the map.
This is going to be very similar.
We don't have a map here, but we do have a list of regions.
And I can't choose a for instance, in this case, the West region.
Now, what is different here with Cosmos than with Cosmos, Déby, is that I have to actually go ahead
and create a new server.
So this is going to be easy.
New SQL Server
w e w.
So I have to create a new server that's unique to the east server to host the database in WUIS region
and again with the main user and password.
So I really am get the feeling of signing up for additional services now just by clicking this, it's
now going off.
It's creating a new server in a new region.
It's creating a new database in that server.
And then it's going to set up a replication of the data in E to the backup in the West.
And so we really are having a very easy time at your application, but it's definitely a slightly different
metaphor to Kozmo Stoebe.
