So we can see here that the WUSA, the base was successfully created, that you have a new server,
a new database, and that the data that was in E U.S. has been synchronized to the WUIS and it is in
a readable state.
This means that I can use this you URL to read data from the WUIS database.
The primary database is still the one that does the writing.
Now, if you do encounter a problem, analysts say the east U.S. region was to suffer an outage.
And you want to you want to switch over to the West Coast region.
You can click on these three dots and see forced failover.
And this will basically assume that the East Coast is dead and turned the west U.S. into the primary.
You can also stop replication, which would also cut these two servers, the link between them.
OK, now you can see up here that it's really the failover group that has, you know, basically automatic
fail over and it's more of a formal relationship.
So if we created a failover group, then you're basically creating a single you URL.
So this is going to be the new DB, your URL, and that's the URL you're going to use in your connection
strings.
And Azure is behind the scenes, is going to basically handle it's going to send traffic to the primary.
And when that fails, it'll send traffic to the secondary.
But the are doesn't change.
So this is almost like a load balancer for SQL databases, except it's not evenly distributed.
The load it is monitoring for failover, it's giving it one hour to recover.
And if it doesn't recover, then then it's going to turn on west.
OK.
So and you can see it's actually free to set this type of thing up, so your automatic failover is here
within a feel over groups.
I'm not going to set that up right now, but we can see that Kozmo CB and SQL database both have some
fairly sophisticated replication options available to to people.
I think Microsoft has done a pretty good job of making sure that there's feature parity, that they're
not overly investing in new features for one and not the other.
So if your preference is the SQL Server metaphor, the relational database, then Azure SQL database
is a great option in the cloud.
It'll handle 95 percent of cases and make 95 percent of people happy.
If you don't want to use SQL database and prefer to use a non relational data store, then Cosmo's DB
is also fully functional and has replication multi hope.
There's the consistency settings.
We don't really get the consistency settings here in SQL database, but the features are are specific
to those types of uses.
Kozmo Zeeb is great for massive worldwide apps.
It's not, you know, for for mobile apps and Iot and for social media networks and where you're going
to have millions of users, cousins be as low latency, high performance designed for global scale.
Not to say Azure SQL database is not designed for global scale, but it has the limitations that are
and you know, most SQL databases have there's a reason why Facebook and Twitter and LinkedIn, all
these things do not run on relational databases underneath.
So it's great for what it is, is an enterprise grade database.
That's relational database.
Cozzens DB, also enterprise grade.
Good for different things.
