Now, if we go back up to the webapp here, actually will show you the one, the cool deployment feature,
which are called deployment slots by default, all apps that you deploy and what we just created and
deployed gets deployed to what's called a production slot, and there's only one of them.
And so when you go to this CRL, you are directed to the production slot, but you do have the opportunity
to have a, let's say, a staging environment where you can test out changes before it goes live.
So let's call this a staging slot.
And so it's got the app name hyphen staging actual sites on it.
And I do have the ability to say, oh, I want the production settings.
We haven't set up any settings for this yet, but if we had set up some settings, we do want that copied
over so that staging would have the same settings.
We can we can set that up.
So I'm going to say at.
So when this is complete, we're going to end up with both a production slot and a staging slot and
it's going to have a two year URL's, we just created the second one.
And so we can we want to go to production.
We go to the production tomorrow.
And if we've ever wanted to visit the staging version of the website, we can do that.
Now, if I flip back to Visual Studio here, we set up the publication to go to the production slot,
I can see New Azure Web service, select the webapp, but instead of selecting the production slot,
I can go under deployment slots and I can see staging, which I just created.
And so I can choose to deploy this app to production for all customers to see or to staging for only
me or my team to see.
OK, so I can see published the staging and it's the same process.
Right.
So still packaging up the code, it's still going to create the directories and upload all this stuff
into Azure.
So we'll let that run and I'll show you how that works.
Actually, just to make this even a better presentation, I'm going to modify the website so that it
says Welcome Scott, in the updated version so he can see the two differences.
I'm going to publish this again.
All right.
So that worked.
Now we have the production site, which is at the production world.
It says welcome and I have the staging site.
This is welcome, Scott.
And so we can see we have two versions of the app.
This isn't costing me anything else because we just have the one app service plan.
Now, again, this is for testing if you want to make sure that the app is working before you let your
customers to see it.
Now, if we go back to the portal, we go back to deployment slot's one of the cool things we can do
here is we can actually direct traffic off of production.
Let's say this is called an AB test.
Let's say you want to have 50 50 traffic between the production version and the staging version.
And now when you go to the production version, half the time you're going to get the staging version
and half the time you're going to get the production version seems to have cached here for me.
But it is a 50 50 basic setup between the production traffic and the staging traffic.
So you can basically do this to let real customers into your app and then you can get some diagnostics,
get their opinion, things like that.
The third cool thing here is let's say you do have.
What's going to put this back 200 and zero?
So let's say that you are like happy with your staging apon.
You are going to basically go ahead with it when we just reopen the production up here.
I'm going to clear my cookies.
And there we go.
So I would say I've cooked it myself, so this is production and this is staging now, I said, let's
say you've tested it, you're happy, you want welcome, Scott, to be production.
Well, you could go back to your visual studio and publish to production, and that would be one way
of doing it.
But deployment slots actually lets you do something called a swap.
So if I go to ploughman slots and there's this swap command, what that's going to do is it's going
to make staging production and it's going to make production staging.
So basically the traffic that was coming in 100 percent to production will now be 100 percent to staging.
And then, like the names of the things will be changed as well as a swap.
And since you can have up to 20 deployment slots in the.
I believe in the standard plan then, no, a 10 and standard and 20 premium, if you can have up to
10 or 20 Diplomate sites, then you can have a bunch of, you know, things to swap between.
So be very, very careful.
But I want to take staging and turn it into production and vice versa.
And so I can say swap.
And that will do the work of that.
Now, once again, the customers are not impacted, they're not the app isn't being brought down.
What'll happen is in a moment, the traffic will go from from pointing to one area to 100 percent pointing
to the other.
And users should not notice, except for the fact that the homepage now says, welcome, Scott.
All right, so I can close that now.
What do we expect when we come here and I hit refresh, it says Welcome Scott.
When I go to what was staging and I refresh.
It just says welcome.
So what used to be production is now on the stage in YORO and what used to be staging is now the production.
So first of all, this is a very easy way to go life.
Second of all, let's say something.
They discover some kind of error, some kind of problem.
Oh, no, my name is not Scott.
This is this is a disaster.
Then it's very easy to swap it back.
So this is the roll back feature of going back to staging from production and vice versa.
So the swapping capability allows you to get back to what it used to be very quickly.
So that's diplomacy, that's it is actually on the exam syllabus.
I was slightly mistaken before, but as you can see, the syllabus does not talk about a lot of the
core infrastructure features of Azure services, not the development stuff.
We're going to talk about logic apps and functions right after this.
But it's very limited in terms of what it what it talks about in terms of this.
