All right, so how do we go about testing this?
Well, the easiest way is to just submit the HTP request with the proper Jason in the body.
Now, this had this reminder is very important.
You need to have the consent type header with application such chasten as the value.
Now, there's plenty of apps out there.
You can write your own app.
I go to a website called API Tester dot com and I basically took the URL.
Let's go back to Azur for a second.
You can see that once I saved this, it generated me a Eurail here.
So I took the URL, posted it to API Tester.
It's a post request.
The data I'm passing JSON data with name and my name.
And again, very important that we tell it.
It's a JSON content in the body.
If I then hit test.
It's now calling my logic app, and I can see that it passed in Scott.
And my response is exactly what I'm expecting.
Hey, buddy, great to see you, because we have our statement and our response being true comes back
is this.
Now, if we change that from Scott to Bob and do nothing else and say test.
Scroll down, we can say hello, Bob, which is exactly what we're expecting in the false response.
So we just built a no code logic app that that basically made a decision and displayed two different
responses based on what we are submitting.
Now, what if it's not working the way that you expect and you're like, oh, why is saying hello,
Scott?
This isn't right.
One thing you can do is there is a debugger.
Kind of debugger running inside of here, so if I say to run, it is now waiting for the API test or
in this case to submit something.
So I see test.
And.
I guess it timed out.
So now I'm testing it again.
And we can see here that there's a green checkmark, it tells you how long something took to execute.
And so the green check mark says this was successful, this was successful.
This response did not execute and the false response did execute.
And so we can sort of said hello, Bob, in the end, so we can sort of see the path if we have very
complicated logic and we could sort of see the path that is being taken.
We can also then view the.
What it's taking in at the input output from this false command here.
We can see let's see if I can see what's being passed here.
We saw it was received and the day somebody was being passed.
So if you ever.
Want to use a logic app, it's pretty cool.
The purpose of Logic app, I guess, is not only for no code, but it is basically workflow in the cloud,
the same way Windows work for the foundation, SQL Server Integration Services.
The like is you can connect things together.
Some of these actions are going to be like, so if I go back to the designer here and I see what else
do I want to happen, you can have it again, email you.
So Outlook has integration, right?
And I don't think it can do things such as tweet.
I think Twitter is a trigger and we just double check on that.
We can look at trigger.
Oh, it does.
So I can actually take in my request here and then I can go and look up a user on Twitter or tweet.
So if I wanted to see Hello Bob to my Twitter account, I can create that using a Logica.
So it has a lot of third party integrations as well as Azure integrations.
So if I wanted to then take this and end up creating a block file.
There is a blob integration, and so I can create a blob based on what I just received.
So instead of tweeting out, instead of responding Hello, I can go into a blob storage account and
create a blob based on the name of Bob.
