So in this section where to be talking about Azure site recovery particularly around migrations I go
into all servers and I'm going to see site you'll see that recovery services vaults is one of the options
and so in select it.
I don't currently have any recovered services boats now Azure site recovery is as the name implies a
disaster recovery tool.
Now if you've got a set of virtual machines either running in Azure or running on premises or external
to Azure you can use Azure site recovery to have basically a replicated version of your application
multiple virtual machines and your data ready to go in case a disaster happens.
So let's say you do have your on premises of EMS and for whatever reason your your Internet service
provider fails and you no longer have connectivity to the Internet.
You can basically initiate a fail over if you've got your Azure site recovery running and already replicated
ready to go.
You initiate the fail over and then you'll basically deploy your entire application into an Azure region
and get that booted up and then you've got your application with up to date data ready to go.
Now this is a manual fail over but it is something good to have in place in case of a disaster and you
know if you if you discover that your applications are no longer responsive and you are giving up hope
on being able to fix it quickly being able to turn on the fill over and then within 15 or 20 minutes
have it up and running again is a pretty good outcome based on instantaneous fell over but it is a short
term failure.
Now you can also use the same technology for migration so the same process of replicating your Azure
VMs or your on premises films in this case basically you can initiate the fail over and have that replication
live within an Azure region and you can set that up as your primary application from that point forward.
So initiation of a failover is basically what makes a disaster recovery situation into a migration so
we're going to go ahead and create our first Recovery Services calls.
Now one thing to keep in mind for Recovery Services fault especially when you're using it for emergency
recoveries is that you basically want the vault to be be in a different region then you're basically
going to replicate from.
So let's say you've got us East region U.S. East to if you're virtual machines are already in East us
to then basically having your recovery services vault and your virtual machines in the same region means
that when the disaster strikes that's your vault is offline as well.
So make sure that in the case of disaster recovery that you recover services vault is in a different
region in the case of an on premises migration than I guess it doesn't it doesn't matter.
You may want to have your recovery services close physically close to your data centers so that the
data doesn't have far to travel and presumably goes over the quickest path so a Z SJ the new HSR that's
going to create a brand new Recovery Services ball we're going to let that run.
