So our recovery services what was created.
Now the Recovery Services fault has a couple of purposes.
One of them is as a destination for backups so you can basically download backup software into either
your on premises servers you're on premises virtual machines or your Azure Virtual Machines and those
backups will be stored in the vault we go down to the protected items.
We can see that it supports virtual machines servers Azure storage and even sequel servers in an Azure
VM so you can basically backup your servers in many different ways.
But this isn't what we're talking about in this video we're talking about replication which is really
just another destination for a migration so we're going to go into replicated items we see at the current
time we don't have any replicated items.
Let's pretend we're going to go through this process to create a replication.
Now we want the we want our our source environment to be on premises.
Now it's telling us your infrastructure has not been setup.
We need to basically set up our on premises environment and registry.
With this out your services vault Recovery Services vault which is basically going to allow us to do
this replication so we're gonna have to close this up.
We go back into the overview we can go into recovery
and we can see that we have to prepare our infrastructure first.
Basically we're going to have to download some software into our environment in order for Azure to collect
all of the data that it needs and then upload it into this recovery services vault.
We do have the choice of replicating an Azure Virtual Machine but for the purposes of this migration
we're talking about on premises.
The destination is basically Azure itself which is what we want.
And we do have the choice between hyper v virtual machine which is the Microsoft to virtualize environment
VMware which basically is the next step after the Azure migrate tool.
So the assessment was done Azure migrate tool or we can use not virtualize server so let's say you've
got windows installed directly on a server and it's on virtualize.
Well then we can basically go ahead with migration through that as well.
OK so if we choose not virtualize it in this case then we're going to have to basically do some deployment
planning.
Now it's optional so I can say I want to do it leader but you can see that there's basically a way of
estimating how long it's going to take.
How much network bandwidth is it going to take to upload those gigabytes and petabytes of files.
How much storage and other requirements.
So basically you're going to allocate some capacity and you can use a tool like this to assess the capacity.
I'm just going to say I'll do it later.
Now this is where we have to configure a source for this.
So we have to create basically a configuration server.
Now this isn't done right away.
Takes 15 to 30 minutes.
But basically we're going to have to download the Azure Site Recovery unified setup.
So it's a piece of software that's basically going to get installed into our local environment and then
we can connect that to our vaults.
We need the vault registration key and the software is going to pick up that key and is connected to
this vault.
Is really a sort of created once we run the installer.
We basically let the registration key go.
We're going to have to create an account for this.
Basically a service account for this tool on the configuration server and basically give those things
administrator permissions on the physical server so obviously it needs administrative permissions in
order to be able to do a proper backup and replication of that server.
So we'll go through this process and will then get into the point where we can create a target for that
for our replication.
