So the next section of this course talks about automation of these deployments and particularly with
templates, so we just saw in the last section that we can go through and create a virtual machine manually
in this multi wizard process.
But of course, Microsoft's not going to leave you hanging.
You're going to be able to then automate this process.
Once you've done it once, you can then basically set this up as a virtual machine that you can create
over and over and over with some custom parameters.
The way that you might do this for the first time is go through the wizard like I've done here.
Get to the point where you are ready to review the deployment.
And instead of actually performing the deployment, there's this subtle button at the bottom.
It's download a template for automation.
So one way to get started with this is basically to have Microsoft create your first template.
So I'm going to click on that.
It's going to take me into a template section here.
Now, basically, a template is made up of two files, one of them being the template, which is going
to be the list of resources and the values that need to be passed in order to create those resources.
And the other is going to be the values themselves.
So these are that's called a parameters file.
So there's a template file and a parameters file.
I'm going to stop here and say this is actually kind of important for this exam, so what you should
probably do is get familiar with the template structure will start off by using the one that Microsoft
created.
And at some point we can get to creating your own templates, at least understanding what are the components
of a file like this and how do we then modify this for our own purposes to make this easier to work
with?
I'm going to actually copy the contents of this into a text editor.
We do see there is this download button here at the top.
You can optionally choose to include the parameters file in the download or not.
Maybe your parameters file has some private information or it's not relevant to your automation purposes.
I believe it is.
So I'm always going to include the the parameters file.
I'm going to click this download button and it's created a zip file for me.
I can then open the zip file.
Microsoft has a built in the zip reader basically.
And I can see there's the two files, the parameters file and the template file.
Now, besides downloading it, there is also a template section of the Azure portal.
And then we can also schedule this to deploy.
If we do want this version of the template with our modifications to go live with a virtual machine,
we can send it off to be deployed.
So in the next video, I'm going to switch into a text editor and we're going to look at the two files,
what Microsoft has provided to us and go basically go line by line or section by section through them
into what they mean.
