So now I've opened up the two files that we downloaded, the template JSON file and the parameters JSON
file.
This program is called Visual Studio Code.
By the way, it is a free code editor provided by Microsoft and I believe it's cross platform.
So you can download Visual Studio Code if you like, this style of of editing.
Now, what we're looking at here is an all what's called an arm template, ARMM template.
I'm actually going to type in here arm template.
Now this ARM template stands for Azure Resource Manager model and basically this is the language of
Azure behind the scenes.
So when we're in the Azure portal and we click the review and create button and we create the virtual
machine, it's converting those text boxes and drop downs into an armed template and then scheduling
that arm template for deployment.
So underneath the Azure portal is the arm model of deployments.
And this is the language of the ARM model, which is JSON file.
This is pretty important, I believe, for you to understand for the exam, we're going to go through
this slowly and it's probably in your best interest to make sure that you understand what an template
is, how to read one, and even potentially how to edit it or to create one if you ever need to.
So not only is this going to be good for your role as an Azure architect or administrator, it's also
good for the exam.
Now, like I said previously, we have two files.
One is the template and one is the parameters that go into the template.
So all our templates start with this dollar sign schema property.
Maybe I should say, if you're not familiar with the Jason JavaScript object notation, this is basically
a way of representing an object in text.
It's like an alternative to XML and it uses these curly braces to start the object.
And then you can have objects inside of the object that have curly braces, etc. These are properties
and values.
So the first property of the armed template is the dollar sign schema.
It has this fixed value.
It never changes.
And so that is the mandatory part of an arm template.
The content version property is for you as a content developer to keep track of this.
So let's say you're going to develop this ARM template and you're just going to keep it around and modify
it as you go forward to improve it or add features.
You can have your version one and then your version one point one and your version.
One point to this is for you to control your version numbers and know that you're working with the latest
version.
Ideally, you would want to check in this file into your content management system, into your GitHub
repository.
However, you are storing your code, your source repository.
These files can be stored there.
The third parameter is called parameters.
And this is what's going to it's going to require as inputs into this ALM template.
As you might suspect, every one of these parameters then has to have a corresponding value within the
parameters JSON.
So we have location that has a value of WUIS and the parameters JSON and we have location which is expecting
a type string in the template.
So this is basically the properties of the parameters for this template.
I'm going to scroll down.
We can see for to create a virtual machine.
We need a lot of information.
This, by the way, is a fairly good representation of what we typed into the portal.
So we chose the WUIS region.
We it automatically created us a network interface card.
And so this is the name it assigned it, then there security group automatically created, etc..
Some of these things are provided by Azure.
Some of them were provided by me when I chose the name of the virtual machine, the name of the resource
group, I chose these things.
So these are all parameters that come in, some of them are strings, some of them are arrays, et cetera.
Now, for security purposes, you know, I did provide a Windows user I.D. and password, the password
is type secure string with a capital S on the string.
There is not you're not going to find admin password.
You see, it's got a value of NUL.
So it's not betraying my security when I have entered a password privately into the portal that did
not make it into the parameters JSON file.
So in order to deploy this, I'm going to have to provide it administrative password and that's why
it's a secure string.
Now, Variables is the fourth property of this JSON file and variables are basically computed values.
So it's going to take this is a resource group is the function of what resource groups is being deployed
to.
So it's going to take very functions.
It's going to concatenate various values.
Here's a concatenate function.
So it comes up with things that are not provided as properties but are going to be used later on in
the in the arm template.
So we've got one, two, three, four.
So the fifth property is the resources.
Now, this is the I would say the most relevant.
This is what you're going to spend more of your time studying, because each resource under this resource,
you can see it's an array with the square bracket represents one resource being deployed in Azure.
Now, you might think creating a virtual machine is a single resource, but as we've seen with the portal
creation, it actually does create six or seven objects.
And so we can start to see what gets created.
So, for instance, the first resource that gets created is a network interface card.
OK, so this this type of Microsoft network network interfaces is an object that's going to get created.
It's going to take a parameter like the location parameter.
It's going to take the network interface card name as a parameter.
It does have some dependencies.
So one relevant thing here is we can see that you can't create the network interface card unless you
have a public IP address created, unless you have a virtual network created, unless you have the network
security group.
So there are three objects that must be created first before this object.
So obviously the placement of these resources within the ARM template is not as relevant as what you
define as the dependency.
So it's going to have to create the public IP address first before it can create the network interface
card.
And obviously to create a network interface card has its own properties scrolling down.
The second thing to be created is network security group.
It's fairly simple.
It's got the location and the rules are being passed in as parameters.
And we saw the rules which are in scope here.
And there are security rules.
It's an object.
It's an array being passed in at our default set of rules.
The third thing, a virtual network, virtual network requires an address space and a subnet name.
Down here we are with the public IP address, so with the network security group, with the virtual
network and the IP address, then it can finally go and create that network interface card.
There's no dependencies down here.
The next thing is the virtual machine itself.
Microsoft compute virtual machines.
So now you can see that we've already identified five objects that are five resources that are being
created by this template.
Some of them are quite complex.
So you can expect a virtual machine to require a lot of inputs.
We already saw there's a five tab wizard when you go to create a virtual machine.
This has a dependency, so you can't create the virtual machine without the network interface card.
All right.
The VM size is obviously a parameter.
The operating system type is also a parameter.
It's hard coded, interestingly, with the image.
So the Windows server is hard coded, 2016 data center is hard coded.
That's not a parameter for some reason.
All right.
So the network interface card obviously is required.
The operating system information like the admin username and password, the computer name, that's all
passed through.
And the last property of the file is the Output's.
And so it's going to pass back the admin username.
Once it's done the deployment, it becomes an output of this.
So we just sort of went through that's the end of the file in a red and armed template, sort of start
to finish.
Now, obviously, there are hundreds of resources in Azure and therefore there's going to be hundreds
of variations of this.
And you're depending on the choices you made, your might have a different army template than what I'm
currently looking through.
So this is our first look through.
What I would recommend for this exam is that you do this until you can get comfortable reading through
this and at least understanding what we've been making.
An educated guess what this particularly means, like why is a public IP address a requirement for a
network interface card?
And when you go under, you know, properties, IP configurations, I will say also you don't need to
memorize the resource names.
You don't need to memorize the type here.
You don't need to they won't ask you to write one from scratch.
But what they could ask you what like I'll leaving, delete this and say, what's the missing element
here?
And it'll pass.
It'll give you the choice between five or six things in a multiple choice question.
And you'll have to know that what kind of thing the subnet would be seeking.
One of the calculated variables, which is the reference I.D. for the network security group.
So that's C that would be the answer.
But you could be asked what would go here.
And that's the kind of thing I would expect.
So, again, my advice is to go through this a few times.
The other the other thing is there's a good GitHub repository for ALM templates.
So if I go to my browser.
Then there is this Azur user, and they have a repository called Azur QuickStart templates, and there
are literally hundreds, as you can see, twenty nine thousand comments.
So this has been maintained forever.
There are literally hundreds of armed template examples.
So if you ever want to see what a setting up a Cosmos DB free account looks like from an arm template
perspective, you can go into GitHub as your QuickStart templates and you can see an example.
So as preparation for this exam, come to this GitHub repository and start reading through some of these
and make sure it confirms with your understanding of the way ARM templates work.
