Now, the reason why I mentioned powerful scripts at all is because Azur has an automation service.
So if you go into Azure and you search for automation, take you into the automation service, if you
don't have any automation accounts, you're going to have to create.
I do have one, but I'm going to go in and create another automation account, say, add the pretty
straightforward.
All you need to do is give the account a name.
So my test automation picked the subscription.
I'm going to put this into the existing resource group.
So we're going to see the second deployment here.
WUIS So we're going to click create it's going to create a brand new automation account.
Now, automation account is what's required in order to basically run jobs in Azure that are based on
partial and other scripting.
OK, so if you want to have something that happens, you know, every hour, then you create an automation
account and then you can basically schedule this to run.
All right.
So I'm into automation accounts.
I hit refresh.
I can see my test automation is there.
So we can see right off the overview screen that if we had jobs running, we could see how many were
running, completed, suspended, failed.
There'd be sort of job statistics right off the homepage.
I'm going to skip right over most of this and go right to run books and even the RAM books.
Galleria's at this level.
So I'm going to go on to run books and there is some tutorial run books that have been created for me.
The run book is basically a automated script that you can run in your automation account.
I'm going to go to the gallery, which again we could have got from the menu.
Now, this is sorted by popularity, by default.
And if we were to look down here, we would see that stopping and starting VM must be a major consideration
because, you know, the top seven scripts that are available have to do with stopping and starting
VMS.
Now, some of these are also older, last updated 2016.
And when you go into it, this is Azure automation team.
Oh, this is graphical, so it's it's all going to work, you know, sort of graphically here, that's
pretty cool.
But if you go under some of these, like this one, we can see the script, but it's using the Azure
R.M. module, which is the old power shell module that might work within an Azure automation account.
I'm not really comfortable writing it scripts or creating scripts based on this old module.
So one thing I want to look at is something that's looking for empty resource groups.
OK, so here's one that's 20 and the description says Remove A-Z Empty Resource Group.
So it's going to go through and find all interest groups which are found going to hear.
And again, it's a powerful script that goes through your resources and tries to find any resource group
that doesn't have resources, so to get easy resource to command, it is going to return empty or it's
going to have no, you know, resources in it.
And once it's found it, then it's going to run the Remove Resource Group command to remove it.
That's OK.
Now, I've actually created an empty resource group just for this.
So we click on import and this is going to bring this into my automation account.
It's importing it from the gallery, go back up to run books.
And now I can see my Remove the Empty Resource Group as a brand new run book.
Click on it and it says, Status new now, since this is new, there's nothing you can do with it unless
you publish it.
So I'm going to click, edit and accept that.
This is a very simple script.
I've read it, read it over and click publish this will publish the this version of the run book to
my automation account.
Now I can actually start the script and get it to analyze my account.
Yes.
And it's going to run against my subscription and find any empty research groups and remove it.
So it says status completed.
And so there it is, we can use an azure automation account to run regular jobs, whether they are from
the run book gallery, whether these are scripts that we've created and uploaded ourselves, we can
schedule them as recurring jobs or one time jobs that will help us work with Azure in an automated fashion.
Now, there's not going to be a lot of questions on the test relating to Azure automation.
This is more of a practical element of your job or of, you know, people within your organization who
need to do with automation's.
But this is how you do automation with an azure.
You do need an automation account in order to run these automation.
So there's a prerequisite there.
