Now one of the requirements of the exam is to deploy to create and deploy into containers.
So we go back into web apps which is popular featured app.
I'm going to create a new new web app
and we're going to put it into the existing resource group
I'll put it into the new web app one and instead of using a Windows code deployment I'm going to do
a Linux Docker deployment.
Now I do have to I can't obviously put a Linux Docker image into my existing Windows app service plan.
And so we are sort of forced to create a new app service plan.
So let's go create new you give it another name needs g g d.
Container and let's look at the pricing tiers now for the Linux containers.
We've got our premium and standard pricing in production and we only have our basic in dev.
We do not have a free plan for the Linux pricing.
So let's put it into a being one of the one plane for new supply
now obviously what we want to do is deploy a Docker image into it.
So what is it.
What do we want to deploy into their.
Now we can choose one of Microsoft's templates some the quick start we can deploy from the Azure container
registry ACR or from Docker Hub or another private private registry.
That's a single container model let's choose the sample.
So there is a let's choose the static site it's a static web page search from engine X web server.
You can actually see the image that it's going to be pulling pulling this from.
So if I said apply when I create this Web app it should be the static web site Quick Start sample.
But again you can choose your own Docker Hub push cetera to get this web out.
Now this is the quickest and easiest way to create a container within Azure.
Right.
See how.
I only had to fill out three or four different things.
And I say create and I'm going to have a containerized web app running in seconds.
Now it's not the most flexible one so when we get into talking about Azure Cuban Nettie service is full
on containerized services.
This is actually just the simplest and easiest way to create a container within Azure has your container
systems essential.
So going to click Create and I'll pause the video for that so creating this deployment took us just
a minute exactly to get a container app going.
OK let's go into the container.
And we have a very similar layout to the windows container.
We have a U R L we can see our app service plan is the B one called a container.
We have an empty P method of deployment
let's click on this you also see our static site.
We're just waiting for engine X obviously to start to service this site.
And so that's a truly simple static Web site that just says hello.
This is being served from a docker container running in an x.
So very simple image obviously but this is being served from a container running within a Linux Azure
RF service
when we go down into the deployment center back in the portal we see a completely different setup right
whereas on the windows code option we had get hub and a lot of other options.
Basically this is giving us the Azure dev ops deployment option so we can get our deployment pipeline
into the web app.
So we can then go through the configuration to set up a deployment but complete different than obviously
what we saw in the azure for Windows.
And if you ever need to readdress the settings of the container remember when we set it up we made some
choices in terms of container settings to go down into the settings option for container settings.
We'll see.
We did we did the quick start method but basically quick start is basically just setting it up as an
Docker Hub image from a public repository continuous deployment is turned off and we can see we can
see the log files from that container so we always have access to change this from one image to another
or to our private registry etc..
