So I have created two virtual networks in the same resource group in the same region, but the thing
that would be surprising to some people is that any devices that are connected to one virtual network
would not be able to communicate with devices connected to the other virtual network.
So there is no virtual network to virtual network communication by default.
So the purpose of this video is to talk about the first way of connecting to virtual networks and Azure,
which is using a network gateway.
So a network gateway is like a site to site VPN.
It is going to be a virtual device.
So it's a virtual network gateway, but it's going to encrypt the traffic.
So any traffic traveling between the two minutes will be encrypted through a tunnel and the same virtual
network gateway that you would use if you were connecting your on premises to Azure using a VPN or a
point to site VPN.
So what we need to do then is go into a virtual network here and create a network gateway.
What are we going to do is we're going to go up here into the search and we're going to see Network
Gateway.
And we can see virtual network gateways, so we have to create one, so we're going to see AD.
And on the basics tab, where obviously we have our subscription and we're going to have to choose a
resource group to add this to us, so we're going to remember we're doing this in the east region,
East Coast region.
Your network, Gateway, obviously has to be in the same region as your virtual network.
We have to give it a name, Venette Gateway one.
There are a couple of types of gateways, the VPN gateway is the one we're going to be dealing with.
Also, we can do an express route gateway, but that doesn't really it's not really relevant to this
VPN Avina to mean that communication.
We'll leave the default here as a root based, there are a couple of types of weapons.
One is more intelligent, you know, the other is more you set the rules and there are fixed rules.
There are different types of skewes there, even for availability zones.
There's going to be a new set of skills here, which is going to pick the Gateway one SKU.
We won't touch this generation gateway, there is a right, so generation two is only for VP and for
V.P. and five, we won't touch it.
So now we have to pick the virtual network.
So we're going to add this gateway gateway one to Venette one.
It's going to create a new subnet, and so you can see there's this ten point 1.0 and it's creating
its own subnet for 16 addresses just for the virtual network Gateway subnet.
Does the Venette need a public IP address?
We are going to create one.
So we'll call this Venette.
Gateway one, IP one.
All right, we're going to leave the rest with the default settings now, a quick review.
Now, the trick with virtual no gateways is it's going to take about 45 minutes for this gateway to
get created.
So this is not a quick thing.
There's obviously some work behind the scenes to get this virtual network instantiated.
So when I create here, it's going to take 45 minutes to get a Venette gateway onto this.
In the meantime, I'm going to create another Venette gateway for the Venette two so that they'll both
end up having a network gateway and then we can do the work to connect those gateways.
So the deployment for Venus Gateway one is underway, and I'm just kidding, create now for Venus Gateway
two.
So we're going to get to Venus.
Gateway's going here on the two different Venus.
