So setting up the site to site connection between the two networks is going to be pretty simple.
I mean, the virtual network one go into the gateway and if I go under settings and interconnections,
I can actually connect the two gateways together so I can then click the ad button.
I do have to give it a name.
I'm going to name it something simple like Venette one to Vedat to just to signify these two networks
are connected.
It's already selected the Gateway one and I have to select Gateway two.
So it does require a what's called a shared key.
This is just a a word or letter, some letters and numbers that would be used if you were going to have
a device on your own network to connect to a gateway, then they would use this sort of password.
So it doesn't really matter what you put in here.
I'm going to basically accept the default, so the protocol used by the default, it's all going to
go into the the same resource group and I click, OK, and then basically it's going to create the connection
between the two networks.
It's actually pretty quick.
And so if I hit the refresh here, I'm going to be able to see that.
It's now still starting up because the status is unknown, but we can see that we don't want to be not
to have connected using this gateway connection without the gateway connection, we wouldn't be able
to do this.
Now, this there is a cost to this.
So each gateway is costing apparently approximately 19 cents an hour.
But the data transfer inbound is free, that you still have to pay for the data transfer outbound.
And so in the United States, it's about three cents per gigabyte.
And you go into different zones, it'll be different prices.
All right.
Hopefully that makes sense.
So basically, the virtual network connection is basically going to be one of the ways that you can
have devices on two different networks talking together.
