All right, now that we've looked at an Azure armed template, how would you go about deploying this?
That's sort of the that's going to be the question that's going to lead into automation.
So I'm going to minimize this and go back to the portal here.
Now, remember when we were creating the virtual machine and we ended up going into the download the
template section and not actually creating the virtual machine?
This is where we downloaded the zip file from this download button.
There is a third tab here called Scripts.
And if I click on it, I see that I'm given option between Power SQL and Azure CLI scripts.
Now, this has changed over the last couple of years, at least twice.
It used to be that Azure included the scripts with the download so you would have the power shell seal.
I think Ruby was in there and something else that I don't remember.
But there were at least three or four scripts included with the download.
Now, they don't include them at all.
Are download file did not include any scripts, but there is the scripts tab now and we can get at least
the power shell in the Seelie versions of the scripts if I click on power.
So it opens up this Microsoft Docs website and I can see this deploy a template section where it can
basically run the power shall command new hyphen A-Z Resource Group deployment.
That's the power shall command to deploy a script and you know, we would have to provide the template
somewhere.
Again, it's it's an online new URL.
Maybe this is sort of an old school way of doing a deployment, but the scripts are there if you need
them to be.
And we can sort of see that this is the basics of the command, the new AC research group deployment.
The Seelie is going to be something similar where it's going to have basically the translation of the
scripts to create a resource group.
It's easy to create and to deploy resources to the group.
Not even in here, I have to click into aged, the group deployment creates is how you deploy using
Zeolite, but for the purpose of this course we can, let's not deploy it using our power shell our
local.
Let's add this to the template library.
So I'm going to click this button here and I have to give it a name.
So I'm going to call this Windows VM demo.
I think the spacing is going to give an issue.
Yeah.
So you can't have spaces.
And I'm going to say this is a demo for my students and when I click save, this is going to save the
template into the Azure Templates section.
Now what I don't think it does, it doesn't save the parameters.
So let's go back to the dashboard and I'm going to type in template into the search box and I'm going
to be taken into the templates.
Now, I do I've been playing around with this, obviously, and so I've got a number of different templates
from different days, but the one we just created is called Windows VM demo.
We can see there's a description.
We can see what data was created.
Let's hit the edit button.
We should be presented with the same JSON template that we have been working with.
If I click on our template, we can see should be exactly the same with the network interface card,
with the public IP address, etc..
So this is the same template.
I'm going to click the X, close that, click the X to close that.
Now let's type the let's click on the deploy button.
Now, this is one of the other frustrating things about this within the Azur, but this is something
that maybe they'll improve over time, something we have to deal with.
So first of all, by default, look at the template comes with just text boxes.
And in this particular case, we have a lot of stuff to fill out.
It would be nice if this was an intelligent dropdown box, like for location, you know, what do I
have to remember that we deploying this in West U.S. and it's West US without a space.
Some of these things are quite technical.
So the OS disk type, what is the value that it's expecting me to pass?
Right.
Or VM size?
What is the value that I have to remember.
It's standard underscored this one underscore like this some of the stuff.
There should be some more intelligence to it, but there's not.
So in order to get around this and make it easier for myself, I'm going to click the edit parameters
button and it comes in empty.
So it's got all of these values and they say no.
So that's basically it did not store the parameters file along with the template.
But we have the parameters file, don't we?
If I go back into my visual studio code, I have the parameters file that we were playing with and so
I'm going to control C copy that.
Go back into here control see paste that, make sure of overwritten.
Now I can save this parameters and when I go back to the template, all of the values have been filled
out for me except for the password.
Remember it didn't wasn't included in the parameters file.
So this is a good lesson.
I guess that in practice, in reality you're going to want to download your template if you're using
Azure to create it and the parameters file and store it somewhere.
And so if you're even if you're going to use the Azure deployment, the templates service for deployment,
it's not providing you the parameters.
And so take advantage of that.
It's a little hack.
Now, we do have to notice.
One thing to notice, too, is the resource group was not part of the deployment file, and that's because
Azure does deployments inside of a resource group.
So the resource group existing is a prerequisite for the armed template deployment to work.
So we always have to provide or create a resource group.
Now, my understanding is that ALM templates are being enhanced so that you can have an armed template
to deploy at the subscription level, which can deploy a resource group.
But as of right now, you deploy armed templates at the resource group level.
So you have to have an existing resource group or create one in order for this to work.
Now I just have to give it the password.
And you can see green check marks all the way down, agree to the terms and conditions.
And so now if I click the purchase button, I'm going to basically be deploying the army template that
we saved into the template service, using the parameters that we uploaded.
And we should have a working virtual machine within a few minutes.
I'm going to go ahead and do that.
And when we come back to the next video, we're going to see that it worked.
