All right, so I got the notification that the deployment worked and the way I got it was the notification
section.
So we can see that the notification told me that it was successful.
I'm going to click on Go to Resource Group.
So I remembered the deployment.
Is that the resource group level?
And so it doesn't take me into the resource that I created.
It takes me to the resource group.
Now we can see a virtual machine, virtual network IP address, all of the items that were in the arm
template, I'm going to even click on the show, hidden all of the items on the arm template.
There are six of them were deployed.
And, you know, we got the names that we gave them.
We can certainly go through now and use this virtual machine, set it up, whatever that is we need
to do.
What I want to show you, though, is this is a resource group and we haven't yet talked about resource
groups and subscriptions to that.
But notice, there's this deployment's on the overview.
One succeeded.
Well, that's our deployment.
So if I click on that, I can see the deployment took 54 seconds, relatively quick to deploy a new
virtual machine.
If I click on it, I get that familiar result screen.
So when you went through The Wizard to create a virtual machine, you're taken to this screen at the
end and then you can go into the virtual machine.
But this is how you get there.
And so we can see the individual things were deployed.
Operation details, incidentally, if you ever let's say you've lost this template or this is a virtual
machine that you created using the wizard, but you forgot to download and save the arm template of
the time that you hit click, you click create the arm template is still available to you.
So if you go into the left side here under template, we can see exactly what was deployed, the the
parameters, the scripts.
You can download that from that point.
Add to library from that point.
So clicking create.
Even if you created the virtual machine six months ago, you're still able to go and retrieve the template
that was used because everything you do in the portal is translated into a template before Azure executes
it.
So that template is still available.
All right.
This is again up here going back to the resource group.
It is in the overview screen.
We can also see deployments listed under settings.
So it's going to be the same link.
Now, it says one succeeded every time I do another deployment to this resource group.
So let's say I go to create a Web app and I deploy I use this resource group as the destination for
that.
Then it's going to have a two succeeded.
If I create a firewall and deploy it to here, it's going to say three succeeded.
Or if I modify a the virtual machine, I believe it'll go and create an arm template to the modification.
So now we've seen that the resource group is the level at which ARM templates are deployed and then
how to go and check on the status or at least retroactively download the templates if you don't have
them.
