Now, I have an interesting question for you.
What do you think would happen if I redeployed the same armed template with the same parameters to the
same resource group?
Is that what what are the likely outcome of that?
So I'm going to go back into the templates section here, go back down to the same template, click
deploy.
I'm going to choose the resource group that we deployed it to.
They set the parameters.
Put in the password, so the question is, what is going to happen if I click?
Purchase.
I'm going to give you a second here for you to think in your head what logically would happen.
So you might think that this is going to cause an error because basically the resource group already
has a virtual network with this name.
It already has a public IP with this name.
It already has the virtual machine with this name, like all of the things that are listed in the ARM
template and the parameters of that, it already exists.
So you can't deploy the second virtual machine with the same name to the same resource group.
No, it does not actually cause an error.
What should happen is it actually tries to redeploy those basically resources into the resource group
IT rechecks that it already exists and it checks that the properties of what exists matches what it's
trying to deploy.
So it's going to go in there and look for the network interface card, for instance, and see that the
network security group named this is attached to the network interface card.
And it's going to say, oh, well, this already exists.
I don't have to do this work.
It'll skip over it.
So this basically deployment can be done over and over and over without harming the existing virtual
machine or any of the resources.
This can be called desired state configuration or DSC.
This is a method of ensuring that your production environment hasn't changed from when you deployed
it.
There is this idea or concept within it called configuration drift, which is over time, over the period
of weeks or months or years, people go into the production environment and they tweak a setting.
They open up a port that wasn't previously open or they assign a permission.
And over time, the deployment that's in production does not match the script that was used to deploy
it.
So you can use this technique of deploying the same arm template repeatedly to ensure that your environment
doesn't change from when you deployed it.
And in order to effect changes to it, you have to then modify the ARM template.
So if you wanted to open another port, what you don't do is change the NSG directly within the Azure
portal.
You have to go into the armed template and modify the port opening so that it can be opened and then
the next time the ARM template is deployed, it will open the port because this property doesn't match
what it's expecting.
So desires to configuration is a basically a valid way of making sure your environment doesn't suffer
from configuration drift.
Deploying the same template over and over it doesn't harm the existing environment.
And to prove that, I'm going to redeploy this.
All right, so if we look at the notifications, we can see that the template was redeployed again successfully.
So I did it originally 15 minutes ago and now two minutes ago.
If we go into the resource group, into deployments, it doesn't actually add additional line because
the deployment has the exact same name.
So this is basically disaster configuration.
It doesn't update doesn't kind of mess up your deployments to say that you've had 600 deployments when
it's just the same template being redeployed.
But if we want to see what happened, we go into the activity log and we can see that this is when the
first template got deployed.
And if I open up the creator up virtual machine action and we can see that 15, 16 minutes ago was when
the original virtual machine was deployed.
And now six minutes ago is when the an update got so krater update, public IP address, krater update
network security group, create update virtual network.
So basically the update action can be seen here in the activities.
So, you know, we basically have not harmed this virtual machine.
It did not go down, it did not get rebooted redeploying.
It has not done anything.
