So in this section we're going to talk about containers specifically the Azure Cuban neti service which
is a managed Cuban any service for Azure.
We go into the create a resource section and we can see that containers has its own section the Azure
container service Cuban entities is the first item.
We're also going to talk about container instances which are a much simpler way of deploying code that
is containerized.
We're going to start with Azure Cuban unity service.
So what exactly is a container and why would you want to use one.
Well containers are sort of a midway point between a purely infrastructure as a service you know a virtual
machine solution where you completely control the environment and the web apps and the platform as a
service solution where you don't control the environment.
So any web apps solution you package up your code you know zip that up and put that into the Azure service
and Azure will deploy and run it as it sees fit.
You can set a number of instances put it into an app service plan et cetera but a Cuban cities container
is basically a way for you to package your code and in the package itself contains all of the dependencies
everything that it needs to run.
And so you're deploying your code as a package into Azure.
Now the great thing about Cuban entities is it is open source.
Lee was invented by Google but it is available on all of the major cloud platforms.
So if you create code for to Cuban any service you can deploy to Azure you can deploy the Google Cloud
Platform you can deploy to Amazon NWS that's certainly not true about something like web apps or even
the server lists functions like as your service fabric or functions and logic apps a lot of that stuff
is fairly unique to Azure.
Could this containerized Solutions a way of you to package your code and deploy it to any environment.
The other benefit of course is that it's make it makes it very easy to get up and running with some
code.
Now I've worked in environments where it's taken a day and a half to get your local developer desktop
are up and running compiled of all of the projects across all of the different things you want to get
the full environment going.
That is he a day and a half of work to get going even though the documentation is very clear it's just
how long it takes to download all that stuff and get everything compiled.
If they were using a containerized solution you'd be able to pull the container out of the container
repository and it would have everything it's needed in that container you wouldn't need to do a lot
of extra installs and get all the DL levels and register with the Windows Registry etc. Now the creation
for a carbonated cluster very much reminds us of the creation for a virtual machine.
It's also similar to only or creating our batch service earlier we choose our subscription.
In my case is the pay as you go you might have a free plane you might have enterprise plan or you might
be have your amnesty and subscription.
It's going to be different for all of us.
You do need to put your Cuban Aaron's cluster into a resource group.
I'm going to continue on with the resource groups that I've been using.
I've been deleting resources we can see that the deletion is in progress.
So as I go through this course I've been deleting stuff but resource groups are great for keeping resources
together and it makes it very easy to clean up after.
So we have to give the cluster a name.
So I'm going to call this a new cluster very original name.
There is a naming convention here but it does not have to be unique across all of Azure is just unique
across the Resource Group.
I'm going to place this in central U.S. We do get to choose a Cuban 80s version.
Now default is the latest.
For me it's 111 dot five.
But if you do have specific needs for version then you can choose from it maybe you want to have consistency
between your different environments and we're going to have to give this new cluster a prefix.
So the DNS prefects is basically going to be used as a fully qualified domain name.
So when you're managing clusters using the API you're going to be using this I'm just going to mean
I'm just going to use the same name for the cluster.
OK now because you're creating what's a cluster is more than one computer there is an orchestration
node and then there are going to be one or more work or nodes it starting off with the D S to VM size
with that contains two CPE use and seven gigabyte memory and you'll notice that it starts off asking
for three notes.
OK now we can obviously create our clusters to be to be more.
Now I have a restriction on my account where I think I've got a 10 CPE limit in this demo count.
So the card time I could not create a 100 node cluster but we can create anything from 1 to 100 and
remember the number of CPE use dictated by the VM size.
So let's create that three node cluster.
Wonder if I can just type here
virtual nodes are not available essentially U.S. OK so if I wanted to try this virtual nodes service
then we would could use central U.S. but that's not available for where I am OK so I'm gonna do a three
node cluster that has to use each.
Now we can service principle is basically the the account under which the nodes are going to run.
And so by default here it's going to create me a brand new account under my active directory that will
be managed by Azure.
That will be assigned to this nodes cluster.
And so I can basically configure very specific security settings for this and it wouldn't run as administration
I could obviously enable this are back or keep it disabled I won't touch that for now will leave the
networking settings to be the default I won't enable Well the monitoring is enabled by default I'm going
to turn that I'm gonna leave that is yes we haven't got into Azure monitor yet.
When we get down to the monitoring and troubleshooting section of this course we'll talk more about
Azure monitor.
We'll just leave that turned on for now.
I won't be using tags at this time and we can see here on the review screen all of which we're creating.
So keep in mind that these D.S. to the cluster has a certain price to it and I'm creating three of them.
So when I create this a case that does have the ability to run up costs fairly quickly and lets you
keep the cluster turned off the next video we're going to create this cluster and then we'll start deploying
code to it.
