Now first of all all versions of Windows come with power show.
But you do need to install the Azure SDK.
But if you're going to do the command line you do need to install the command line whether it's a Windows
or Mac OS or any of your Linux systems or you can even run lie within a docker container.
No surprise there right.
So if you want to install the update Seelye you'll find a web page for it and you're going to it's going
to say download the installer then we're gonna be able to use this A-Z command to do all of our interactions
with Azure not just for Coober nannies.
OK so the CLIA is one way that people are using to connect to Azure besides power show.
So there's always usually an equivalent between power shell and the CLIA.
OK.
You can also you power show to access the CLIA as well.
So going to go through the process of installing CLIA 2.0
so let's open power shall we go into the start menu find power show a desktop app start it up when it
changed the font so it's a little bit easier to read here and I'm going to go to the view Cuban his
dashboard and I'm just gonna be like copy the commands.
So the first thing we need to do is install the cube control executable into our own CLIA so the chaos
install dash S.L. I can see that it's telling me it downloaded Q control from Google Web site.
Next up we're going to get the we're gonna have to update our path variable.
So I'm going to go quickly and following this instructions and do that so that we don't have to do that
again.
I've done that and now I'm going to paste in to get credentials.
Luckily Microsoft provides this as a copy that I can do it.
I do have to log in first in order to this.
So luckily it's I'm already logged in I'm able to just pick my account and then I can just switch back
to the power show
and try the command again get credentials
and you can see that the context has been changed so I don't need these windows anymore.
Go back here and the final command here is to open the Cuban and his dashboard a case browse.
So I'm going to paste that in there and we'll see that's going to actually fire up a web server.
So it's basically running on my local.
There's a Web server component and this is the Cuban and his dashboard.
So this is nothing like what's runs an Azure portal we can see it's connected tour as your account.
We can see the deployments we can see the services that are running the internal IP is in the public
eye piece you'll there's a whole lot of options here in terms of watching the deployments.
How long ago.
We don't have any jobs running.
So the company dashboard certainly a surprise of how robust this is.
Again it's running as a local web server that's running on 120 7 0 0 1.
You see it's a port eight thousand one so pretty cool option to have a company's dashboard available
as a case browse.
We can see here that it's web server running the behind the scenes.
