So most people that are watching this are only going to have a single Azure subscription and if that's
the case then you don't really need to know this.
But if you have multiple Azure subscriptions at your disposal then you're going to want to be able to
set the Azure subscription that you want to create resources in because otherwise you may not be creating
resources in the subscription that you wish.
So we're in a power shall command here and I'm already logged in I connected to Azure and now I'm running
the command get hyphen A-Z subscription hit enter and it comes up and says I there are actually three
subscriptions associated with my account which is true.
Now there is this subscription I use for my training which is the first one.
There is another subscription I use as a demonstration and there's another client's subscription here.
So if we are looking to set one of these subscriptions as being the active one then what we need to
do is basically create a context variable so dollar sign context equals get easy subscription.
Got a split right.
And we're gonna pass in the parameter subscription
I.D. Now we're going to grab the I.D. from one of these subscriptions.
I'm going to grab my primary one and paste it here
and that's going to get the context of the subscription and set this variable with it.
Now we want to set a Z context to our context by doing that.
We're basically saying this is a subscription we're gonna be using to create resources in this powerful
session.
So if you are facing multiple subscriptions there's a very easy method here with the get easier subscription
and the set easy context commands in order to set the one that you work with.
