So let's demonstrate service fabric by creating a cluster.
I'm going to use the ash cloud show and see a apply for this.
So I clicked on the cloud shell button and the top middle of the menu and it starts up a terminal for
me.
I'm going to maximize the screen here and I'm running in the Seelye environment Bash.
Now if I do a DIY R I can see that I do have a local storage here within this environment.
That was a storage account that we created when we first created our cloud shell.
I'm going to make a new directory just for this.
I'm going to call it service fabric and then we can see into that so we're gonna start off by creating
a resource group as we usually do a Z group create.
Remember it is a Z followed by the service followed by a verb and we're gonna give this resource group
a name is it s g d service fabric group and a location and that location.
I will put it in yeast U.S.
So comes back succeeded with the new resource group I'm going to clear clear the screen by typing clear
now now we're gonna create our service fabric cluster.
Now there is this is a little bit complex but what this the script for this is going to be attached
to this lecture.
So if you want to download the code for this go to the resources and download that.
So you're going to start off with the A-Z and I'm going to say S F which is the service fabric but there
is a sub service called cluster.
So this is a Z S.F. cluster create.
That is the command that we need to create a service fabric cluster.
But what we're gonna do is we're going to pass in all of the properties and parameters that we need.
The Resource Group
it gets a name like a Z as JD S.F. group that we previously created and the location for this cluster
is going to be e us.
We'll keep it in the same location.
Now we are going to need a security certificate and we're gonna store those security certificates in
the vault.
OK so we're gonna have to create a resource vault creates or temperature security certificates let's
certificate.
Now if I hit the tab key it should auto fill in a second here.
Certificate outfit folder which since we are in the directory that we want to be in I'm just going to
see dot which is the current directory we have to give it a password.
So sir TIFF kit P
and I'm going to give it a password realizing that you all are looking at this.
So this is not going to live for very long and then we have to give the certificate.
It's called a subject name so the subject line the domain name here has to match the domain name of
our cluster of our service fibre cluster which we haven't created yet.
So I kind of want to know in advance that I'm going to call this a z a shady service fabric.
Hopefully nobody has taken that.
Otherwise I will be having to edit this.
It will fail and I'll have to edit it.
So that's the certificates domain name.
That's gonna be embedded in the certificate.
We want to give the cluster a name so the service fabric cluster has to match this domain that we just
created.
But we just identified and how many nodes do we want in this case I'm only going to have a two node
cluster.
But you can have fibre more what operating system.
So I'm going to have bond to server 16 for now.
We said the certificate is going to live in a US IN A Azure key vault.
So we have to give the vault a name.
So this is a Z s f new vault and the vault is going to go into a resource group as they are required
to.
We're going to put this in the same resource group purpose of putting stuff in the same resource group
is.
So it makes it easier to delete after keeps it altogether.
We're almost done.
So here we are we've taken service fabric cluster create we we've indicated the location and the resource
group and the location we set up the certificate we are setting up the cluster name the size the operating
system we're setting up the key vault which is going to store the certificate.
The final thing we need to do is setup a virtual machine specific stuff such as password and user name.
And so I have yet another password that I'm going to have to come up with and I also have to give it
a user name.
So if I see VM hyphen user hyphen name a Z as JD test user that will be my username.
So this command together is a bit long but each of the properties is required in order to create the
group turn it to quit the group it to create the service fabric clusters certificate the key vault and
all of the properties required.
So I can hit enter.
Now this is gonna take a while.
Obviously we're creating a lot of things here but one of the downsides to see Alyse we can't really
see the percentage it's not putting any sort of verbose ness here but what we can't do is we can go
you know pull this down go into our resource groups here now we know that we created a resource group
that has a s f in it.
In my case you're going to have a different one so I'm able to find that group.
And when I go into it it's already got 13 items in it.
So we can see a virtual network multiple storage accounts the IP address VM scale set even a load bouncer
service fabric cluster and a key vault there's also another way to see this deployment running we don't
have in the portal we have this notification process but within a resource group we can see the deployments
underway.
So there's a deployment setting or a peer it says one in the process of being deployed.
And so for the resource group that we're creating the CLIA has created its own arm deployment and now
we can see the deployment in action we can see all the actions that is taken and we're currently in
the virtual machine skill set.
Step we can see that's still under way.
We'll see how long it's taken if you ever want to check out the arm template check out something like
this we can actually add later on dig in here and see how the CLIA commands got turned into into arm.
So this is one way of monitoring your deployment if it's taking a long time and it will take a long
time.
