So this took a few minutes.
We can see that it's rich responded with provisioning state succeeded.
There's a lot of details here that that has sort of come out including the IP address.
I'm going to minimize hit the minimize button here on the cloud shell and go back to the portal and
we are in the deployment section for the resource group and we can see that this deployment is now in
a succeeded state.
And it took almost 30 minutes to create a two node service fabric cluster.
We go back to the overview of this of this group and I can minimize the header here.
We can see that it's created 13 resources.
Bunch of storage accounts Republic IP address for the little bouncer.
And then the virtual machine skill set.
Let's go into the virtual machine scale set.
You'll see it's a Linux server a standard D2 V2.
So there's two instances with two views each.
That is for CPE use.
It's been nice enough to create some tags for me on my cluster so I can do this for reporting purposes.
I have a public IP address.
We can see the overview of the state of it going into the instances tab.
We can see there are two instances if we ever wanted it to be three or more.
We can obviously go into manual scale and increase this from two to three year to five and that will
increase the number of servers running in our scale set.
But let's not worry about that yet.
I'm going to discard this go back to the group.
Now the really the only relevant thing we have our key vault that had our security certificate in here
the really relevant thing here is the service fabric cluster itself of course because that's the orchestrator
that's running on top of our virtual machine scale set now.
Now that has just started.
It is still in that startup state.
So the service fabric cluster is not ready to be operated on with we can see the the U.R.L. that we
actually requested and then got created.
So I'm going to let that update give that a few minutes and when we come back we're going to see the
service fabric cluster from this overview screen.
All right.
So that took 10 minutes or so but we can see that the updating message has gone away.
We have our service fabric cluster.
It has two nodes running it's giving us an overview here of the health state we can go into the nodes
section and see those nodes as well the nodes are running in a VM scale set and we can see sort of the
the end point for the client the endpoint for our management tool etc.
So this fabric is giving us to your ls here.
We saw the endpoints just a second ago but this is the the are for interacting with the application
and this is the URL from managing the application.
Now we created this as a secure application.
So actually.
Remember when we were in the service fabric the cloud show here.
Then I created a directory called S.F. and then we created some security keys so we're gonna need the
security keys in order to connect to this application so that it's a secure application and we need
the certificate in order for it to be successful.
But let's use this your Alamogordo New grab this you are all here and we're going to go into in this
case Firefox with this U.R.L. port nineteen eighty.
First time we go there it's a self signed certificate and Firefox is telling us that it is a potential
security risk it's got this beautiful thing but we know this we've we created this it is a signed application
a P S but it's buying now it should give us an error because we don't have the certificate installed
so in order to do that let's download our public and private keys here.
So going to see download it's requiring a path here.
So we in the S.F. directory we have the PCM file here.
I'm going to say download it's establishing the connection and the File is coming to my downloads directory.
I'm also going to download the p effects file as well and see download
this exists in our keyboard but we also have it here in our directory
let's allow it to download the second file.
Now we have to get into Firefox and upload this so if you switch back to Firefox as of the time of recording
this is the way it works you go into the options menu.
I'm looking for a certificate so I type into the search box for certificates.
Same view certificates.
Go to the your certificates tab and import.
Now I'm going to go to my download location
scroll all the way down.
This is the certificate that we created today two dozen nineteen o nine here by default.
There is no password on this thing.
And there we go.
We've imported that certificate security certificate into the local browser so close that out.
Now if we refresh it we are.
It's asking us to send the certificate to them and that is OK so we're going to accept this and now
we have the console application the the explorer it's called that allows us to sort of manage or a service
fab cluster in the browser here.
So this is the management console.
And the only way you can access it is if you have that security certificate.
Now we haven't deployed anything to this yet.
So if we go into the applications there's none.
There's nothing nothing running there's no services no micro services.
We have our nodes so zero being the primary here in one.
But we don't have any applications running on it.
So we would expect that the service fabric.
It's just it's just empty it's empty.
It's like having empty containers.
Now I would say it's probably beyond the scope of this course to develop micro services and deploy them
and all that stuff.
This isn't a development course or administration course but you should know that there is a just like
with Cuban eddies there's cube control in order to manage the Cuban his cluster service fabric has FS
S.F. CTO.
So Cuban entities has K you be CTO serious fabric has S.F. CTO and we can then say you know cluster
select groups choose the service fabric that we just created.
So if I go back to here I can pass in the H2 G.P.S. a little bit of laziness in terms of copy and paste
here
now remember we need a certificate in order to interact with this cluster it's a secure cluster.
So we're going to pass in this.
P. m. we're going to copy the B M here.
We're going to paste in the p.m. And we're a no verified so this will basically identify to S.F. CTO.
This is the cluster that we want to work with.
Great.
So it's a two to be s validation which is fine.
And at this point is where we're going to actually install our application into the service fabric.
Now like I said where this is where we'll stop we're not going to go and find an application to install
just to demonstrate that but SLC tail is the command and control command line for service fabric.
