So let's look at service fabric apps a little bit closer.
And specifically how they're developed and how they're deployed now deploying a service fabric app is
a bit easier to explain because it operates very much like a lot of other services within Azure.
So for instance this reminds me a lot of web apps you can deploy a service fabric app directly.
So as a process you just package up your code that is supported and run within service fabric and you
deploy that into service fabric just like a web app or service fabric also supports containers.
It has Linux and Windows containers and so you can package up your applications into container published
the container image to a container repository and then deploy the container and that scan very similar
to the way web apps work.
So the deployment is pretty straightforward.
Now in terms of the development this is where it gets interesting because there are three ways of developing
your apps that can be deployed into service fabric in any of these three ways can be done as a guest
execute as processes or as containers.
Now the three ways our guests executable is reliable services and reliable actors.
Now the guest executable is pretty straightforward it's exactly as the name implies.
This is just existing code that you might have a brand new code that you develop and you deploy it into
service fabric.
That means you've not made any changes to your code and any code that makes it anything special for
service fabric it's just regular dot net or other code running within service fabric.
Now doing it this way is you're not getting the full benefits of running within service Fabric Of course.
So this fabric supports it and it's going to keep it available and reliable as much as it can.
But the guest executable is just running on top and it's not interacting with the service fabric at
all.
And so you're not getting some of additional benefits of using it now there.
The second way of developing your code that's unique to service fabric is called reliable services reliable
services is a framework.
And so if you're developing code for service fabric and you want to use this reliable services model
you need to call these reliable services API eyes in order to do these special things.
So this allows your application to interact with the service fabric in some way now be be aware that
as soon as you start adding code into your applications that is unique to the service fabric that does
not relate to web apps does not relate to VMS does not relate to running on your own environments or
in NWS then you're basically encouraging a little bit of lock in.
Right.
So using the service fabric reliable services framework then you're restricting yourself to service
fabric.
Now that may not be a huge case because removing that unique code might not take anything away from
your application but just be aware that as soon as you start doing it you're you're going to lock yourself
in a little bit.
Now the reliable services model is a services oriented architecture that means that everything is designed
around services and in the past set of videos and we're talking about service fabric.
We've given a bunch of examples to these kind of micro services and I'll repeat them here.
You've got log in and log out services or database calls translation services logging or auditing etc.
So these can be designed as services and act according to the service oriented architecture now there's
two types of states here.
One is a state lists service.
Now the concept of a state lists service is that it's running and it can accept requests from anyone
as long as their request is properly formatted and then it sends back a response to any one case of
the state the stateless service is just sitting there.
And if you've got the right api keys and all of the data it'll just do its work.
Now it doesn't necessarily mean that the stateless service doesn't have some concept of a state that
just means that the state is stored elsewhere.
And what do we mean by state.
Well when you are let's say you're logged in to an application let's say you're logged into Facebook
while Facebook knows who you are your name your Facebook I.D. an image of you and every page you go
to inside of Facebook is unique to you.
And so there's a state there's a session state that Facebook is storing relating to you.
And every time you call their server it remembers you.
You don't have to log in every single web page.
So a stateless server is going to be something where you it knows who you are and it store some piece
of information relating to your session.
Now a state full server basically search fiber does support a state full server.
This means that the state is stored locally.
So back in the early days of the web where we're talking about active server pages and before then you
could use a session variable and store information in memory on the web server relating to the session
that you're dealing with.
And it would take care of it for you.
That was a very poor programming practice because as soon as you had hundreds and thousands of users
you had little bits of memory on the server being taken up by each one and you'd run out of memory.
And that's when state servers got invented and you could store your your data about the user outside
of the web server now in service fabricate uses what's called a reliable collection.
So it does have a state server running within service fabric.
And if you wanted to use it it's called a reliable collection.
Now why what kind of services does the reliable service framework provide so you can query the service
fabric itself.
So the application can actually during runtime go and check with something with the service fabric system
including you know how many servers or how many services are running etc. It can do in a report of its
own health so it can basically report back how many messages orients Q And how many how many seconds
it takes to run etc..
So any kind of health information that it would have that the service fabric system would not you can
send messages from the service fabric to the applications and have those applications perform actions
based on it.
So let's say you wanted to switch to a read only mode for some particular purpose.
You can then notify those services and say we're in read only mode and the services if they're programmed
properly would understand that and operate accordingly.
And so you could have this kind of communication and a couple of others the reliable collections is
also supported in this framework.
Microsoft says this reliable services model has some advantages over the guest executable and they are
the services are even more reliable and more available.
The scalability benefits etc..
So if the applications can notify service fabric of their state then the search fabric can be more informed.
When it comes to keeping them available and scalable the third type of programming model within service
fabric is called Reliable actors.
Now the actors model within programming is it's a paradigm that's R E that's been around for 30 plus
years.
And so this is supported within service fabric.
Now actors in the sort of fabric framework only communicate through messages.
And so you don't call in line like a service where you call it directly and it responds to you immediately.
An actor you basically put a message in his mailbox and it can act on it.
It can ignore it.
It can respond to you through a message et cetera.
So actors are more isolated than services actors reminds me of objects.
So if you're familiar with object oriented programming then each object in the system is an actor.
It also reminds me of MBC the model view controller model of programming where the actor is the controller
so the actor basically has actions that it takes and you know you can tell it to save.
You can tell it to delete you can tell it to add etc. and the those verbs exist on the controller level
you use a message as a method calls.
They're isolated like I said and so we're looking at objects or actors.
You've got the user actor.
The user has properties name email address image preferences.
The user can also be told to take certain actions like delete or update or etc. but you can't effect.
So think of a user object but you can't change its name unless you call the change name action or behavior
on it.
You know its control of its own data and no outside force can overwrite that private data and order
is also an actor or a warehouse and things like that.
So think of your your system as actors that message each other.
So what's the difference between the services reliable services and reliable actors.
The services.
It's pretty straightforward a service since they're on an endpoint on a port listening for requests
and then a request comes in.
It acts on the request it responds to the request then it takes another next request and it does that
in response to that it's just request response request response request response in the reliable actress
model the each actor has its own mailbox if you will and so somebody wants to communicate with that
actor.
It sends a message the system will then generate the actor so each invoice in your system.
It could be an actor and if you need to send out a message to that invoice then it basically the system
will create it.
It will wake up it'll check its mailbox it will act on that message.
It may or may not do anything other than change its own internal data and then when it's no longer needed
it goes back to sleep and it's removed from being in existence so the system takes care of creating
and destroying these actors and all you have to do is just drop a message in its mailbox.
Pretty pretty straightforward and this is good for scalability so we're talking again privacy.
I mentioned that likes Azure sequel database is run within service fabric well each each database is
an actor right.
And so a message comes in it goes in it Acciona.
