So we've seen that table storage is useful for storing column data, effectively, very cheap price,
but the performance is not guaranteed.
We want to move to a more professional solution, more expensive solution.
Unfortunately, that is called a Cosmos.
DB now causes to be again on the most popular applications.
And the deal the CB is there is actually a ==free tier==.
This is a pretty recent addition.
But if we go down here, we can see that if ==you keep under 400 requests units per second, which we'll talk about in a second, and five gigabytes of storage, you can get that for free==. But only one account qualifies for this. ==So you can't have unlimited number of free cosmos TB accounts, but you can't have one.==
Now, with Cozzens TB, they have a very similar to a storage account where you have an account metaphore.
So when you create Cosmos TV for the first time, you're creating an account and then when you go later
on, you start to create containers and containers, contain items, etc..
So there is very similar to a storage account and blob's in terms of having accounts and containers
and containers containing items, are going to create a new business group for this.
Give it a name.
And again, it's got to be unique across all of Asia, so somebody has gone and taken this account from
me, and so I'll just add a two to that.
Now, I talked about puzzles, Debbie.
Actually having a school metaphor there is you do get the option, but one of them is core school.
This is the first big decision that we have here.
We open up the dropdown.
We can see that there are actually five choices.
Now, the label says ==API==, and what it really implies is the type of data that you're going to be stored
into Cosmos DB and you can't mix and match.
So you can't have in the same account both ==table data and graph data and document data(core, previously called Document DB).==
Right.
So you have to choose for each account one type of data storage.
Now I'm going to choose the core.
Now, this used to be called if you've been in Azure for a little bit, this used to be called document
DB.
And the API is if you go under the hood, still talk about document DB, but now it's called core.
We're going to skip over the previous feature.
We do place the causes DB into a location.
I'll show you later on how easy it is to duplicate and replicate this database into multiple locations.
Now there are a couple of modes.
One is a provisioned mode and the other is a Cervalis mode, not service mode is in preview and preview.
Features are not talked about on the test, so I won't talk much about that.
But you know, in Serverless model, you're paying for executions and you pay for storage and you pay
for calls to that database.
That also means that you could end up being charged nothing, because if there's no cause there's no
there's no executions in the provision mode.
You basically have a capacity standing by whether you use it or not.
Azure uses a metaphor called ==request units==.
Are you?
And depending on the different types of requests that you're making, it's going to cost you one or
more than one request unit.
So a list operation to select a right operation.
You know, all the different operations you can do are going to have different expenses and you have
a limit of four hundred per second.
So that roughly translates, you can say four hundred requests per second as long as the requests are
extremely simple and maybe two hundred are only one hundred requests per second.
And that's the minimum.
You can't get lower than that.
Now, this account, I already have a cousin, Stoebe, so I can't make make use of the Fritze here.
Now there is this convenient switch between production and non production settings, and we can see
the implication right below it.
We're saying that this is a production database automatically enables ==Geo redundancy, which backs up the data to another data center in another region==.
And also ==multi region writes is called a multi homing and that gives you more than one email that you can use to access the database for reading and writing== Right. Let's leave that as a non production setup. OK, now we're going to when we create the database inside of this work, that's when we're going to
choose the request. You it's much like a lot of other services with an azure, ==we can connect to the Cosmos DB account via public IP address, or we can choose various levels of security, such as a private endpoint or giving giving it access to resources on a particular network.== Let's leave it as a public endpoint.
At this point.
We can even set up a backup.
So it does come with a backup right now.
By default, it's going to back up every two hundred and forty minutes, which is roughly four hours,
and it's going to restore keep those backups for eight hours.
That means we have two backups on hand at any one time.
It is encrypted by default, as usual, and Azure is going to manage that for us.
Otherwise, if we want the customer Mansky using Azure key vault, we could do it that way.
We'll skip over the text and we'll see a review and create.
Now, notice that there is one of the few services that gives you an estimation in terms of how long
it's going to take to create.
So I want to hit the create button.
I'm signing up for a 15 minute wait, at least for this to be created.
In my estimation, this estimate is actually quite spot on.
It'll come back at 14 minutes and fifty five seconds or something very close.
Let's let's see how that does that.
