It's important that we understand how Asia implement security across virtual networks by default.
A machine that is on one virtual network cannot communicate with a machine or database on any other
virtual network.
Now obviously if we're dealing with storage accounts or Azure SQL database that don't exist on virtual
networks then that doesn't apply because those are public services that require a key to access.
But if you've associated your storage account to a private endpoint on a virtual network then you will
find that a virtual machine on another network cannot communicate with it.
But that doesn't stop the communication we can actually setup what is called a peering relationship
between the two.
So if we go into one of the virtual networks and we go into peering then we'll be able to add the connection
between those two networks.
So I'm going to say ad we do have to give the name of the peering connection from the one network to
the other.
And then we're going to also name it from the other back.
So let's call this new test 1 to 2.
Now we're using the resource manager model of course.
If we wanted to connect to networks that were across subscriptions then we could use this the resource
I.D. model.
And this will allow us to connect with a virtual network that we don't have access to or a subscription.
We're going to connect this name here using our subscription we're going to connect to new test too.
So we are working on new test one and we want to connect new test to now.
We do also have to create a name for the reverse connection.
So this is called new test 2 to 1.
Now this is where we get to configure what whether we allow traffic in both directions or we only want
the traffic in one direction.
So allow virtual network access from one to two enabled and allow virtual network access from two to
one also enabled.
If I was to disable this then all the devices on one could connected devices on two but two would not
be able to route traffic to one.
Now there's also the concept of forwarded traffic now forwarded traffic is basically traffic that comes
from another source that it wants to get to new test one.
So let's say there's another peering relationship between new test to a new test three but traffic from
three can get to one.
And then of course the other way around as well.
Do we want a pure traffic that comes from other networks to get to to we also have this concept of a
gateway transit.
So if we want to set up a network Gateway then this will allow us to go across the VPN if we want to
connect into the corporate network or express route so that's it works.
We've set up a two way communication between new test one and new test two.
We've enabled it in both directions.
And right now we're not allowing traffic from other locations and so I can say OK and so now it's doing
a dual deployment here is deploying the peering relationship on the one side and also the peering relationship
on the other.
So that's it.
It basically set this up.
We can see that the pairings now exist.
If we were to go over to the new test to network into pairings we can see that that deployment succeeded
as well.
Now setting up this pairing is not the only determinant of whether these two numbers can communicate.
We're also going to be dealing with things like network security groups which do block traffic certain
types of traffic from traveling over the network and also firewalls and other settings that are basically
going to shape traffic or user to find routes and other things.
So just simply setting up these two networks allows them to understand the IP address range of the other
network actually exists and how to get traffic there.
But you still have security settings that could get in the way of stopping traffic from traveling or
at least determining what kind of traffic can go over that network.
