So it took 22 minutes to get a virtual narrow Gateway tabloid into e to us two and thirty two minutes
to get that deployed into Japan.
So now that those deployments are complete we can take a look at them.
So going to go back up to the resource group level.
Now before I get into the gateways themselves let's look at the networks.
So remember we added the gateway subnet to those two networks not new test one and you test three in
my case.
If we go into connected devices we can see that the network Gateway successfully connected to the Gateway
subnet in this network go back up to the resource level.
And I'm going to go into that Gateway what we're interested in is connections.
OK.
Now there are no current connections.
Now we could set up a point to site VPN or a site to site VPN.
But in this case we're going to set up a vignette Davina connection.
So under connections I'm going to say ad we do have to give it a name and I call this the I'm going
to call this talking to Japan.
It is a vignette to vignette configuration as opposed to site to site or express wrote.
So that is one of the valid mean it.
Gateway can can figure patients here.
Now we know that the first gateway is the one that we're in which is the V-neck Gateway the other gateway
is the Japan Gateway and we can choose this from the list here.
So now we're signaling that we want to connect these two gateways.
We do have to create a shared key that both gateways are going to have to be set up with in order to
have this communication.
Now if we had a physical device we could grab the key from that.
But this is a Veena to vignette.
So we do have to give it a password effectively now it's not hidden in any way so I'm going to put my
shirt key and leave the rest of the defaults.
We know what's subscription ran what resource group we're in.
We know where this gateway has already been created.
So I'm going to see.
OK we'll give that a moment to get created.
So it's been about 10 minutes since I created this connection and we can see that it's in a connecting
state.
They go into it.
We can click into it.
You can see it's a connection and it is connecting the new test one in New test three networks based
on the two gateways.
Remember this is an E to us two and this one's in Japan.
And so we can go into activity log and we can actually see that there are there's activities going on.
Thirty minutes ago I started this connection and now we're into from some other stuff so we can actually
look at the deployment as it's as it's going up and now it's says succeeded.
So now we have as we were clicking around to virtual networks that are connected to each other over
and over gateway.
Now remember we've got peering that can be local or global with one pricing structure or we've got this
network Gateway which can also be local or global.
Now the advantage of a network Gateway over the other.
The other option is terms appearing is that there are gateways are actually scalable.
So if you have a lot of traffic being being sent you can actually get up to a higher SKU like if we
go into the configuration we can see that we chose you know Gateway one but we can go into Gateway 2
and a gateway 3 if we wished we could also set up an active to active configuration which would allow
even redundancy in case you know so that this thing would even be higher availability.
OK.
So.
So gateways have sort of an enterprise greater than not seeing that peering is unreliable in any way
either.
So we can also set up a configuration where you have your corporate network using a site to site getting
VPN to get into Azure using a gateway and then being able to then further connect onto other networks
from there through through appearing relationship.
Now we did set up a gateway on both ends but that's not even that's not even required in a peering relationship.
Remember when we were looking at the peering go into this one and into peering
we could have enabled and we basically could have enabled a network we can enable new test to to use
the VPN device on new test one or the gateway device or new test one.
And so this concept of remote gateways is a way of having one VPN device and then having remote gateways
that are using that device to communicate onto the corporate network.
So lots of lots of sort of settings when you want to set up peering between different networks.
