In this section of the course, we're talking about load balancing and network security features.
Now, if you're not familiar with a load balancer, load balancer is a device, in this case, a virtual
device that distributes traffic between two or more servers.
It does this so that not one single server is handling all the traffic.
So imagine you have a single server that was serving up your website and you had millions of people
coming to that server to visit your website.
If you need to reboot that server, then those people are not going to be seeing your website for the
time that that server is getting rebooted for those minutes.
If you had more than one server serving that traffic and a load balancer in front distributing the traffic,
then all visitors to your Web site would get served to the website even if one of the servers was being
rebooted on screen as a diagram showing to load balancers.
One, a front end public load balancer and one is an internal private load balancer.
Traffic is coming in through the top from the Internet through the public front end load bouncer.
There are three website virtual machines that are accepting traffic on Port 80.
The load balancer evenly distributed the traffic to all three machines.
It might be eeny, meeny, miny, moe or a round robin way of distributing that traffic, but all three
machines generally are going to get an even amount of traffic.
Now, if any one of those machines experiences problems, if there's a crash, a hardware failure,
a software failure or a reboot, the other two virtual machines are able to handle the traffic.
The load balancer is intelligent enough using health probes to ensure that the detects that the machine
is not working and not send traffic to that machine.
The same thing happens on the internal load balancer where you have some applications running in the
business tier and all virtual machines are sending traffic to the internal load balancer.
And any one of those businesses here, VMS, are able to answer it.
So in this way, we are increasing the availability of our websites and our applications.
Now, there is a concept called a service level agreement for virtual machines.
That is the level of service that Microsoft is promising you in a financial sense for virtual machines
running an azure.
And if we read the first two paragraphs of the SLA, it's promising you a certain percentage of availability
if you're using two or more instances of a virtual machine.
Well, implicit in that is those instances are using a load balancer in front of them so that traffic
can be distributed to one or the other.
So for all virtual machines that have two or more instances using the availability zones feature, we
guarantee you will have Internet access to one instance, at least ninety nine point nine nine percent
of the time.
And remember, the four nines availability is about four minutes per month of downtime.
So this is quite high level of availability just for having two instances, buying a load balancer.
If you use the availability set feature, then the availability drops to ninety nine point nine five,
which is probably eight minutes a month.
So just by having two or more instances, you get what is increased availability.
And in this video and in the next video, we're going to show you how to not only create virtual machines
in an availability set, but to put those machines behind a load balancer so that traffic is evenly
distributed to them.
