Now we're going to move on to talk about the application gateway, the application gateway is a different
kind of load balancer to the load balancer product.
Now, the load balancer within Microsoft Azure, it's what's called a level four load balancer.
That means it only understands things at a network protocol level.
It understands TCP, it understands UDP, it understands IP addresses and ports, but it doesn't understand
you are rules that's at the application level and that's called a Level seven load balancer.
And so the application gateway is at that higher level.
It's a level seven load balancer.
And what we see on screen is a diagram that demonstrates that you can have two different pools of service,
you know, one year old coming in and the rule within the application gateway can differentiate.
But based on the you are all of the request.
And so the images requests can go to one set of servers and the videos requests can go to a different
set of servers for the same website.
And that can't be done by the load balancer because again, you can differentiate it based on IP address,
but not based on your URL.
So let's create ourselves a application gateway.
We're going to go into the marketplace and I'm going to start typing application.
And the soon as I get the Geet, I can see application gateway.
As a result, I'm going to say create.
Now the level seven.
Level four is not the only differences between the the load bouncer and the application Gateway application.
Gateway can actually be placed in specific availability zones.
It can be clustered, it can be scaled, maybe a more enterprise grade type of load balancer.
There's nothing wrong with the bouncer itself, but the application gateway is more flexible when it
comes to availability.
Create a new resource group for this.
I'm going to call this app GW.
Called the gateway as well, I'm going to place this in the just to.
Now, again, you're going to want this gateway to be in the same region as your virtual machines behind
it now, I haven't yet created the virtual machines, but we'll do that in a second.
But I'll put it these to us to now application Gateway used to have Skewes and now it has tiers.
OK, so we can see there's Standard and WAFB.
We have stands for Web application firewall.
And so the application gateway, one of the features of it can be that it includes an active firewall.
And so if I want traffic to have to pass through the firewall, preventing some of the common types
of cross site scripting, sequel injection and all of those common attacks that cost extra, and I can
be at the top tier for that.
If I just want a standard gateway, I can do that.
Now, remember I said that Application Gateway has the additional feature of being able to scale so
we can if this is a serious thing for us, we want to have a scaling gateway.
We can certainly do that.
I'm just going to leave this as not scaled.
We'll just just need one of them.
Also, Application Gateway does support zones.
And so if you're placing your specific VMS into specific zones, so let's say you've got a large 20
server solution and you're going to place that across availability zones, then you might want to have
your application gateway also to be deployed across availability zones so we can specify exactly what
zone.
And then when we have another application gateway, we can place it in a different zone and that gives
us the availability of benefits.
I'm not going to do that for now.
You can see that does support the new HTP to protocol, but to one point, one is the default forever
unless you have specific needs for it.
I wouldn't leave that now because the gateway is a device.
It's an instance.
Unlike the load balancer, this does need to be placed onto a virtual network.
I don't think I have one that I'm willing to use to see.
The dropdown isn't very.
There it is.
I'm going to create a new one.
So in a call this app, GW Venette.
It's chosen a range for me, 16 and 24 is default.
All right.
And.
Next, we have to deal with the front end.
Remember, just it's just like the load balancer and that there's the front end, the back end and the
rules.
Those are the three elements of a load balancer.
So the front end, we can decide whether we want private, public or private or both.
And if it's public, we need to create a new public IP address, give it a name.
We don't get a choice of what type of IP it is.
The backyard pool, this is where we can add our virtual machines are available assets or pvm skill
sets.
I don't have one yet.
Now, I guess I have to guess I have to create one, so pull one.
So I can create the pool and the pool will be empty, so I have to create the virtual machine still.
Now, the middle part, which is connecting I like this diagram, which connects the front end with
the back end, is the rules.
Now, you might want to have a basic rule that just looks for, let's say our front end is our public
IP and our listener name is New Listener one.
We can look for HTP traffic over Port 80 and basic listener type.
And so it's a single site as opposed to having multiple domains or multiple subdomains behind the listener.
So this is just a basic listener.
Now, we haven't created the pool yet.
We have to choose the the settings.
So settings theme is new settings.
Poor Amy, we don't have affinity, so it's going to juggle back and forth between servers, connection
draining is a really cool feature where let's say you have 10 servers behind and you want to scale down
from ten to five.
Well, you don't necessarily just want to cut off those five servers in the middle of trying to help
serve customers.
And so connection draining is basically going to wait until the server is idle before removing it from
the pool.
So it's basically a slower process of scaling down, which is more friendlier to your customers and
the people using their website.
All right.
So we can obviously override the hostname and things like that.
Now, we don't have since we only have the single pool, we don't have this ability to have videos going
to whine and images going to another.
So will we have to have multiple targets in order to have multiple paths?
It makes sense.
We can skip over the tags and, you know, here we go.
So at this point, we've create we would create a Level seven load balancer.
If we had multiple back targets, we could have those Eurail recognitions.
And it respects availability zones and it's scalable.
Lots of additional features.
And you can even choose a Web application firewall that can be optionally added to the availability
application gateway.
