One of the great benefits of cloud computing is how easy it is to create highly available applications.
And by that, I mean having redundancies built into your architecture.
So here's an example of a Web app.
Let's assume that I have the same Web app and it's deployed into two different regions in this example.
One is in Canada east.
One is in central U.S..
Now, I might do this just in case the Canada east region was to suffer some type of outage or the central
U.S. was to suffer outage, that I would have a backup already standing by.
But how could I set up a fallback basically, so that when one fails, the other one takes over?
Well, I could get into application gateways and try to set this up as a backyard pool.
And even though they're in different regions, it's possible to do that.
But then the application gateway itself has to live in one of these regions.
And so if we're having a regional outage, the application gateway in that region would be affected
by that.
So the solution to this is called a front door as your front door.
It is basically a global level of a load balancer.
Now, it's much more than that.
It also provides the firewall.
It also provides a CDN and other services.
So.
Let's go ahead and create a front door.
I'm going to say ad and I'm going to create a front door hit create button and I'm going to put this.
I have an existing research group already, so I'm going to put this in my existing resource group.
We can go on to the configuration tab now, very much like a load balancer.
It has a front end.
It has a back end and has routing rules.
So we need to add a front end, though in this case, it's going to be a brand new, in this case,
a brand new fully qualified domain name.
So this is going to be my new Web app.
Now, of course, it has to be unique.
This isn't taken for some reason.
You know, it's going to be globally unique because of this type of fully qualified domain name.
I do have the similar decision making in terms of like setting up a firewall in that I have to decide
whether I want to have such an affinity, which is where the same user returns to the same set of servers
every time in a session.
Or I want to also have a Web application firewall.
So this is very much similar to an application gateway where you do have the ability to add a firewall
in front of your application.
Remember, the firewall in this case is a very simplistic firewall.
It's looking for, you know, some of the top 20, top 10 hacking techniques and so crosseyed scripting,
SQL injection, etc. I'm going to leave that turned off and we're going to add a front end.
So it's going to go ahead and and test the new Eurail for my application.
Of course, we can use a custom domain name here to look at user name record and set up a custom domain.
Next up, we have to determine where to send the traffic.
And I've already created those two Web apps.
So I'm going to go ahead and say, add back end.
Now, we have a lot more options in terms of backhands to what we normally get.
So we can go to an app services, which we're going to do.
We can get to storage account.
It can actually direct traffic to another application gateway.
So you can still have your virtual machines running in a highly available setup in each region.
And then the front door sits in front of the application gateways and you get that extra redundancy
in case the whole region goes down API management at any public IP address.
So this could actually be the front door for an adewusi machine or for it on hosted premises.
Traffic manager is another level of redundancy.
So we're going to just go into app service.
So it's going to it's going to choose like say I want to choose my front door one as being the the host
in this case will do Port Adrian four for three and the waiting.
We can basically decide which one gets higher weighting or the other, you know, seventy five, twenty
five or fifty fifty.
That's enabled say OK, add a second one, it's going to be another app service.
This is going to be front door to again with the 50 percent weighting.
And so now I've basically said this is the front end your URL, it's going to be evenly distributed
to these two back ends.
We do have the option for health problems.
Like we don't even have the option for that.
It's going to check the route of those websites.
Used to be asked to make sure that it's responding, doesn't pull down the whole page.
It just checks that the page is responding.
It does also include a load balancing settings.
So if we have four attempts to do the health probe gets too successful, it's considered healthy.
So two out of four healthy, two, three or four unhealthy.
And we're going to see add.
And finally now, there's only one front end and one back in pool.
So one hundred percent of the traffic is just going to be sent there.
So any tips hsp from the front and it's going to be a star, which is everything.
It's going to use a forwarding protocol as opposed to a redirect protocol and it's going to be sent
to the pool.
The connection is going to be between the front door and the back end will be over only and on the set
we're not going to reveal the top rewrite.
It means we could reveal the URL, but we're not OK.
So that's a very simple, like little balancers setup.
But this is like I said, it's even though it's in the look, it says it's in the East Coast region.
This is at the global level.
Now, we'll let this create and we'll go into it, we can see that there's some other options even to
speed up the connection and to do some caching at that level, et cetera.
All right, so that deployment is complete and I can say go to resource.
And what we would expect is if we go to this URL for the front door front end, it's going to take us
to either the central U.S. app or the Canada app.
And so I can pull in here the euro from the front door service.
And I can see that I'm being shown an app.
And if I refresh it, it's going to show me one or the other.
Now, that's one when one test, of course.
So that's a successful test.
One thing that we can do is we can try stopping one of those services.
So if I go to the Canada service, the App Service, and I say stop, I'm going to confirm that it's
stopped.
What I would expect to happen is that I'm going to get failures basically, so what I was going sent
to this app, it's now says service unavailable.
And the end, you think, oh, that's not working?
Well, it's actually is working because if we go into the front door.
And we go into the backyard pool, we can see that there's a 30 second delay between the health checks
and we need a certain number of failures in order for this to be marked as unhealthy.
So we should wait about a minute and then we would expect traffic to be sent to the U.S..
So there is you know, it's always this risk in the whenever we have a health situation is if you're
caught in this interval, then you're going to see down time, but it'll recover very quickly.
And in the time that I took to explain this, I refreshed it.
And it's back to so now I'm being served entirely from the U.S..
Region.
All right, and the Canadian one.
Is stopped.
So that's the front door service, really cool, one thing I didn't show you is that you can enable
caching.
So if we scroll down here to the bottom, the last the last setting on the rule is you can actually
turn on a CDN type setting.
So now it's basically going to cache your images, your JavaScript, your success, all your static
content at the global level.
So this is like having a built-In CDN.
If I was to.
There's also this dynamic compression, which is going to take the files as the get sent from the server
to the front door service and use the I think it's G zip compression to get it sent down to you, which
would be obviously less data and potentially quicker.
So some pretty cool features on this front door service.
And if you've got a service that you want to be highly available, you have to consider using more regions
and therefore you have to consider something like front door to be in front of this.
