I've always thought that as a traffic manager was pretty cool technology, the front door service is
a lot more modern.
It's been introduced in the last couple of years.
Traffic manager has been around longer than that.
It serves a similar purpose in that it is able to send traffic on a global scale to one region or another.
And so you see the diagram on screen traffic managers of the top and you have two apps in two different
regions.
And traffic manager is sort of sending one to one or the other.
But traffic manager works at the DNS level.
The way that that works is the user.
The end user ends up typing your domain name into their browser.
The browser goes and looks up the IP address for that domain name.
And that's where traffic manager responds with a one IP address or the other based on with a region.
And the default behavior is it's going to send them the IP address of the application that's closest
to them geographically.
So if there's a European region and a European user, they're going to get the IP address of the European
servers.
This is probably very similar to how something like any of these large websites account, you know,
Facebook dotcom works where there's not just one server responding to Facebook, dotcom, depending
where you are in the world, you are being sent to different data centers and it's all under the same
domain name.
And so traffic manager is basically a DNS trick that will give one domain name, multiple IP addresses.
Now, this does have also the ability to fail over.
So when one of the regions goes down and stops responding to traffic after some time and it's going
to be a bit of a lengthy period of time, let's say it's 10 or 15 minutes, then the traffic will start
flowing to the other region.
But this is a way of really minimizing downtime.
That is an aspect of availability that some downtime is allowed, but excessive downtime is what you're
trying to avoid.
So this isn't the case at an older tech front door is really replaced it, but there's still a place
in it.
And we did see that front door service can forward traffic to traffic manager.
So there is a place in your solution for both even.
But that's pretty cool.
And I'm not going to go and create a traffic manager profile.
But certainly that's how traffic manager works.
The whole purpose of it.
