So next up, we're going to talk about a pretty cool service called Azur Bastian's service.
Now, we all know that when you have a virtual machine and you need to connect to it to do any kind
of installation or maintenance, you have to open up a port such as RTP for Windows or SFH for Linux.
And those are known as security risks.
When you are in your networking section and you're adding opening up the already report, Azure is actually
warning you with that little yellow exclamation mark that having RTP open is a security hole.
Hackers around the world know the port numbers for our message, and they're constantly scanning every
IP address in the world, looking for those open ports and then scanning those ports for vulnerabilities.
And so Microsoft has developed an alternative way of connecting to those machines that are more secure
without having to open RTP.
So when you have a virtual machine like this and you say connect, you see you have the RTP, the S.H.
option, and finally you have a bastion option.
So the Bastiaan option is basically a device that's installed on your virtual network.
It has its own subnet even, and you can use the Azure portal and that device to get to your virtual
machine without Redzepi, without opening up a port.
So basically having this device on your network and then using that device as a jump box or BASTIAN'S,
it's also called will let you get through to the network.
So let's go ahead and create a Bastion server.
Before we can do that, we have to modify the virtual network and to add a bastion subnet money.
Ways to do this is going to go back up to the resource group.
I'm going to go into the virtual network.
Now, we created this.
This was created automatically.
This virtual network was created when I created the VM.
And we can see that the default subnet is taking up one hundred percent of the address space.
So I'm just going to go ahead and add a new address space.
I'm going to add this is DOT 17.
I'm going to add 18 as a secondary address space to the Venette.
You may not have to do this.
If you have the space, then I can go down to the subnet and I can create a Nazeer Bastion's subnet.
Now it has to be called Azure Bastiaan subnet.
There's no choice on that.
There is a minimum size, I think, as such.
Twenty six.
I'm going to leave it as such.
Twenty four.
And I'm going to leave all of this other stuff as the.
The default.
Don't need to delegate any of that stuff, OK?
So now we have the Bastian's subnet, now what we need to do is create the Bastiaan server.
I'm going to go back up to the resource group and see AD and we're in a search for Bastiaan in the marketplace
to create.
It's going to create it in the same group, we do have to give it a name, so I'm going to say test
Bastiaan.
The location.
I don't even remember where I created this virtual machine, but I'm going to see us virtual network,
we've got our.
Virtual networking.
It's already chosen the Bastiaan subnet.
It's going to create a new IP address.
Don't need any tanks, I'm going to say review and create.
And so now it's going to go and install in, as an instance, running in its own subnet there.
All right, that was complete and successful.
Now we could go to the resource, it's sitting there, Bastin server has been created.
There's not much to it.
Let's go back to the resource group and the virtual machine.
And now if we go and try to connect now, I will say I don't have the RTP port open.
So if we go into networking.
Well, there is the RTP problem, we can even remove the RTP part.
This is a security risk.
Right, so we're not going to allow our deep connections directly into the machine, but what they can
do, we would expect to connect RTP to Phil and Associates, of course, because it's not so in a server.
But we can't say connect through Bastian.
Now, Bastian is going to ask for the administrator, user I.D. and password.
And it's going to open a new window.
And so this is through the portal based in through the Web browser.
It's asking for permission to my clipboard, I don't know why, but there you go.
And now I am remoting into this brand new machine that I created.
It's using RTP between Bastion and the server, but I don't have RTP port open and I'm using a Web browser
to get into this.
So it's all pretty safe and secure.
It is sort of, you could say is a modern way of connecting to these servers as opposed to having the
port open.
Or the alternative, of course, is having some really tight rules on which IP addresses can connect
to our DP.
So your energy settings for RTP could be pretty tight as well.
But Bastin is sort of the modern way of getting into remote into a machine without having to RTP port
open at all.
