 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers. 
 And welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is on the history of Amazon Web Services so far. 
 So before we begin you're never going to go into an exam and be asked what year was easy to created 
 or what year was three created. 
 This lesson is actually just to give you sort of context of where W.S. is and where it's going and why 
 it's so important to learn AWOL. 
 So why is Adobe so powerful. 
 Well this is Andy Jesse and Andy Jesse is the CEO of Amazon Web Services and he said famously that invention 
 requires two things one the ability to try a lot of experiments and two not having to live with the 
 collateral damage of failed experiments. 
 Now give you a perfect example. 
 We at a cloud guru are a startup. 
 We did everything server loosely and we literally had no budget to build our platform. 
 We had almost no money in the bank whatsoever and we were able to go and use Adobe us and build a platform 
 that scales automatically with demand for little to no running costs. 
 And that's the beauty of service and we'll get into it surplus means throughout the rest of this course. 
 But it also going back before surplus but when. 
 With the invention with Amazon Web Services itself it meant that startups could go and try out new ideas. 
 And then if it didn't work or they you know the they provisioned the wrong resources you could just 
 go in and terminate it. 
 You didn't have to live with the failed damage or the damage of failed experiments. 
 So before Adobe s and before the cloud what used to happen is you would go and you'd get a server and 
 you get it from a provider like Rackspace for example and you'd be locked into three to five year contracts. 
 So if you made a mistake that was it you were stuck in a three year or five year contract and you couldn't 
 necessarily get out of it. 
 And also renting servers is actually quite expensive and even purchasing servers for a startup if you're 
 purchasing let's say to web servers to database servers a switch some firewalls and a load balancer 
 you're probably going to be looking at about twenty thousand dollars just to get the equipment and that 
 can be an awful lot of money for startups. 
 Now when eight of us came along they started provisioning virtual machines and you could go in and provision 
 them instantly you could do it at the click of a button and you could just run that virtual machine 
 for a couple of minutes and then terminate it and you would only be billed for that hour in which it 
 ran. 
 So it meant that you could go in and start experimenting and doing lots of different things and you 
 didn't have to live with the collateral damage of failed experiments. 
 So that is why AWB is so powerful so let's go onto a brief bit of history about AWB. 
 And in 2003 Chris Pinkman and Benjamin Black presented a paper on what Amazon's own internal infrastructure 
 should look like and they suggested selling it as a service and prepared a business case and then AWB 
 s first launch excuse and will cover what that is later on in the course. 
 But escudos was the very first service and this basically as a queue service or message service and 
 allows you to decouple your infrastructure that was launched in 2004 then AWB says a business officially 
 launched in 2006 and they were really really clever with the way they launched because they basically 
 targeted a lot of Silicon Valley startups. 
 And by 2007 over 180000 developers were on the platform. 
 So they went after the developers first they weren't going after the enterprise markets they went straight 
 for the developers and all these startups like Dropbox or Airbnb MBA etc started on AWOL and because 
 they didn't have to raise huge amounts of money in order to you know buy physical servers they could 
 just use Amazon's servers. 
 It made them the massive titans of business that they are today. 
 And by 2010 all of Amazon.com moved over to Amazon Web Services. 
 And by 2012 Amazon had their first reinvent conference. 
 Now reinvent is held in Las Vegas every year. 
 It's typically just after Thanksgiving. 
 Certainly has been for the last few years. 
 We are there every year. 
 Last year we had a stand. 
 This year we'll probably have a stand as well. 
 And there's also a big party at the end of reinvent called Replay which is great. 
 It's like the biggest tech party on planet and it reinvent what Amazon do is they go out and they release 
 all their big releases for the year so they'll release all the new services. 
 So that's what reinvent is. 
 In 2013 Amazon released these certifications so you could start getting certified as a solutions architect 
 as a developers CIS ops administrator etc. and they started with the associate levels. 
 Then they brought out the professional levels and now they bought out the specialty levels. 
 And as of recording to date there are currently ten certificates that you can get. 
 And by 2014 AWB was committed to achieve 100 per cent renewable energy usage for its global footprint. 
 So Amazon's Data's data centers are mostly powered by renewable energy or at least they're trying to 
 get that way I don't know if it's at 100 percent and if they hit that target. 
 But they're certainly trying and by 2015 AWB broke out its revenue and they were making 6 billion US 
 dollars per annum and it was growing close to 90 per cent year on year. 
 Now that growth has slowed a little bit. 
 I think the last time I checked was about 44 per cent but that might have been for the last quarter. 
 But it is growing super super fast by 2016. 
 Had a run rate of 13 billion US dollars and by 2017 ran then released a host of artificially intelligent 
 services. 
 So this was things like LAX. 
 So these were services like Polly and lax. 
 These are the things that power Alexa. 
 They released sage maker which is the type of machine learning and you know they released a whole bunch 
 of different A.I. services and their run rate was hitting 27 billion dollars for 2017 and 2018 w s launch. 
 Machine learning certificates and they had a heavy focus on automating and A.I. and AML. 
 So that was all at reinvent in 2018 and then this year just at the very beginning of the year they released 
 the Alexa specialty cert. 
 So you can now get Alexa certified as well and there's a total of 10 certs available right now. 
 So that's a history of eight of us. 
 So far we're still waiting on the 2018 run rate numbers but I would expect them to be much bigger than 
 last year and it really is a great thing to learn Amazon Web Services is going to be around for decades 
 and the demand is just going to keep growing as more and more businesses move their infrastructure to 
 the cloud. 
 And of course more and more businesses will want AWB certified people. 
 So by doing this course you're going to get your AWB certification and you're going to learn an awful 
 awful lot and hopefully have an awful lot of fun. 
 So that's it for this lecture guys if you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to next lecture.