 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at the AWOL platform 
 from a 10000 foot overview. 
 Now this is a real photo. 
 Most of you may or may not know this but this is a photo that was taken in February of 2018. 
 This is when Elon Musk sent his Tesla Roadster to Mars. 
 It actually overshot Mars and went to the asteroid belt. 
 AND THIS IS A Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy reference here. 
 You can see on the screen it says don't panic. 
 So we're going to have a look at AWB is going to have a brief look at all the different high level services 
 and some lower level services. 
 Don't panic because there's an awful lot of services and you do not need to know every single service 
 to pass your exam. 
 I would wager now that there's very few people on the planet who know every single service in a lot 
 of depth just because there are so many. 
 So please do not panic. 
 So let's go and have a look at the Adobe's console in 2015. 
 And this is what it looked like. 
 And basically when I first started recording the Aikido guru lectures in 2015 I'd go and I'd talk through 
 every single service. 
 So what you see too is what lambda is what S3 is. 
 And the reason I did that was because all of these services were relevant more or less to the certified 
 Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 Let's have a look at what it looks like in 2016. 
 2016 you can see that we've got more services. 
 So we've got things like machine learning. 
 We've got work now we've got a whole bunch of new services that are being added like elastic Transco 
 to for example and these services actually weren't all that relevant to the exam but I'd go through 
 and explain what they were. 
 Anyway this is what the console looked like in 2017. 
 So getting more and more and more services. 
 And when I started to record my lectures and talk about every single one of these services the course 
 was getting to be about an hour and a half long. 
 Just on this section and a lot of these services are no longer relevant to these certified Solutions 
 Architect associate exam. 
 So let's have a look at what the console looks like today. 
 So this is what the console looks like today. 
 Don't worry in the next lecture we're going to look at how you can sign up to the console using free 
 tape. 
 So if you haven't already signed up I'll show you how to do that in the next lecture. 
 And if you want to see all the services you can click up here and go services and you can group them 
 or you can do them from A to Z. 
 And if we scroll down there's an awful lot of services. 
 And if I was to go through and explain what each individual service was let's say for 30 or 40 seconds 
 the whole course is going to this whole section of the Course is probably going to take two and a half 
 hours and I'm just going to be wasting a lot of your time because a lot of these lower level services 
 are just simply not relevant to the certified Solutions Architect associate exam things like Amazon 
 connect or pin point or let's have a look media convert any of these media services deep plans for example 
 none of these are relevant to the certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 So what I am going to do now is in this lecture anyway as I'm just going to go through and just talk 
 about the high level services compute storage databases migration and transfer et cetera and then we're 
 going to look at the platform from that perspective and then I'm going to show you what is relevant 
 to the AWB certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 One other thing I will show you is up here. 
 You can change what region you're in and we're going to have a look at what the different regions are 
 in a second and what the difference is between a region and an availability zone for the rest of this 
 course. 
 I would recommend that you use the US East Northern Virginia region. 
 The reason for that is this is the oldest region and this is where all the new services come out first. 
 This is also the region that actually goes down the most as well so when you're building your production 
 workloads maybe use your best East Ohio or some of the other US West ones because Northern Virginia 
 does go down tends to go down once a year but who knows maybe that's all in the past. 
 So let's have a look at the AWB high level services and we'll start with the global infrastructures 
 the global infrastructures what we've just been talking about it's the regions around the world in which 
 NWS is based on top of the global infrastructure so it's a whole bunch of high level services. 
 So we've got compute examples inside compute might be easy to might be lambda et cetera and we are going 
 to cover those off in the course storage. 
 We've got things like S3. 
 So this is where you put files into buckets. 
 We've got different services in there like airfares for example. 
 Again we're going to cover it off in the course databases. 
 This could be relational databases such as RDX. 
 This could be non relational databases such as dynamo D.B. migration and transfer is a way of getting 
 things to and from AWB This includes things like a snowball which we are going to cover network and 
 content delivery is basically one of the most sort of fundamental parts of AWB so things like VPC virtual 
 private clouds as well as cloud from their CDM I'm going to cover that in the course developer tools 
 is not really relevant for the certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 It is covered as you might guess in the developer associate exam. 
 Robotics block chain and satellite of all new high level services that were released at reinvent for 
 2018 not covered in the course. 
 I really hope there's a robotics specialty at some point. 
 That would be super cool but it is a very very new high level service not relevant for the exam management 
 and governance we will cover media services we won't. 
 Machine learning. 
 So this is all the sort of A.I. things like Sage maker for example that can summer. 
 You basically just have to be highly sort of aware of the different I am our capabilities for the certified 
 Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 They may ask you a question about one or two services but you don't need to know it in a lot of depth 
 where it does come up is in the new machine learning specialty cert which I did actually just a couple 
 of weeks ago and it is super super tough. 
 It then got analytics we've got security identity and compliance security identity and compliance we 
 will cover off in the very next section of the course where we start to log into identity access management. 
 We're going to start creating our users groups and roles. 
 We then have mobile not really relevant A.R. and VR so R is augmented reality VR is virtual reality. 
 Again not really relevant application integration as well as AWB. 
 Cost management. 
 Cost management can be a part of the solutions architect associate examines a big part of the cloud 
 practitioner. 
 We then have customer engagement business applications desktop streaming IO T and game development. 
 So let's go ahead and start with the fundamentals and let's look at NWS global infrastructure. 
 So what's the difference between a region and availability zone and an edge location. 
 So it will start with the global infrastructure. 
 So there's currently 19 regions and 57 Availability Zones around the world. 
 As of December 2018 there's gonna be five more regions and 15 more availability zones for 2019 that 
 are currently announced. 
 Of course there's going to be more. 
 Don't worry you're never going to be tested on the number of regions and availability zones but it is 
 important to understand the differences but you know between them and also where they are basically 
 where's your local region. 
 So before we look at a region let's look at this. 
 This is a data center and some of you may have seen data centers before some of you may have not. 
 And an availability zone is essentially just a data center. 
 That's what I want you to think of an availability zone as zone availability zone is a facility somewhere 
 out in the country or could be in the city and inside that facility is a whole bunch of computer stuff. 
 So servers we've got Sands we've got you know switches we've got firewalls we've got load balances we've 
 got storage basically anything to do with cloud sits inside our data centers so data center is just 
 a building filled with servers and an availability zone is essentially a data center now and availability 
 zone actually may be several data centers and but if they're really close together they're going to 
 be counted as one availability zone. 
 So one availability zone could be two or three data centers that are all within say a couple of miles 
 of each other that way if there is a flood it might take out all three facilities or it might take out 
 that availability zone but then you'll have another availability zone that will be you know 100 miles 
 away and if that if it floods in one area it's not going to affect the other area. 
 So you're gonna have different availability zones in different regions. 
 So what is a region or region is just simply a geographical area. 
 So each region consists of two or more availability zones. 
 So we have the London region we have the Northern Virginia region we have you know the Oregon region 
 we have Sydney region Singapore region we have the Tokyo region et cetera et cetera. 
 So regions are just distinct geographical areas and each region will always consist of two or more availability 
 zones and availability zone is simply a data center and a data center is simply a building that's filled 
 with computer stuff. 
 So pretty simple stuff. 
 So let's have a look at today's regions we've got North America North America consists of a whole bunch 
 of different regions. 
 So you've got Northern Virginia Oregon US West we've got the central region which is Canada US West 
 that I'm talking about here is actually just for gov cloud so gov cloud you can see there's gov cloud 
 US W and gov cloud us e this is for government customers only this is not for private corporations so 
 do bear that in mind we then got the US east which is in Ohio and we've got U.S. West in Northern California 
 and then down here have a whole bunch of different edge locations and you're always going to have more 
 edge locations than you will have regions you might be thinking Well what's an edge location or locations 
 are endpoints for the US which you use for caching content so typically this consists of cloud front 
 which is Amazon's content delivery network and we're going to have a look at that in the S3 section 
 of the course but it's way. 
 Let's say you've got a big file and you've got a user who's sitting in Sydney and the server that they're 
 trying to get the file from is in New York. 
 Basically what happens is that user downloads from New York. 
 It is then cached inside the Sydney edge location and then if somebody else from Sydney then tries to 
 download that file they don't need to get a file from New York. 
 They can actually just get it from this Sydney edge location. 
 And again I'll cover this off in more detail when we go and do the S3 section of the course. 
 What's important is that you understand that each location is not a region. 
 It's actually just a sort of a smaller location that NWS have and its use for caching content and there's 
 always going to be more edge locations than there are regions currently there's over 150 edge locations 
 around the world. 
 So have a look at South America. 
 We've got a region in Sao Paulo and then we've got a whole bunch of different edge locations around 
 Rio de Janeiro and say Oh Paulo as well. 
 We then have the EMEA Regency Europe Middle East and Africa. 
 So we've got the Irish region which is one of the oldest regions inside Europe. 
 We've got the London region we've got the Frankfurt region and the Paris region. 
 We've got a whole bunch of new regions that are coming in EMEA so we've got regions in Cape Town in 
 Sweden in Italy that are all coming online as well. 
 And then we have a whole bunch of different edge locations there in a pack. 
 We've got the Singapore region the Tokyo region or soccer region Sydney region so region Mumbai region 
 Beijing region and meaning Zee region. 
 And then we've got a whole bunch of different edge locations as well. 
 So what is it you need to know in order to pass your certified Solutions Architect associate exam so 
 we had to look at all these different high level services. 
 I'm no longer going to go into each individual service so and explain you know what stage my career 
 is or what. 
 Easy to is or what elastic trans Kota is we will go and explain the most relevant services throughout 
 the course that will help you pass your exam. 
 But we're not going to cover every single service on the AWB platform because that would be an entire 
 course all unto itself. 
 So what is it we need to know to pass our certified Solutions Architect exam. 
 Well why don't we just start with what we don't need to know. 
 So we don't need to know develop tools we don't need to know robotics or block chain or satellites we 
 don't need to know media services we don't need to know mobile. 
 We don't need to know a are in VR application integration. 
 We don't really need to know cost management. 
 We kind of do a little bit that's a bit of a touchy one so I've made it fall off but we will cover cost 
 control on eight of us because that is an important part of being a certified Solutions Architect. 
 We don't need to worry about customer engagement business applications and I.T. or game development. 
 So these are the high level services that you should focus on in order to pass your exam. 
 And of these high level services there's a bunch of course services. 
 And these are the bread and butter of passing your AWB certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 So you've got security identity and compliance which we're going to do in the very next section of the 
 course. 
 We have compute we have storage we have databases we have network and content delivery compute is mostly 
 just around easy to add lambda storage is going to be all around S3 databases is going to be mostly 
 RDX as well as some dynamo D.B. and some redshift as well. 
 And I'll explain. 
 Don't worry if all these sound like foreign languages we are going to learn what they are throughout 
 the course network and content delivery is all Route 53 which is Amazon's DNS service as well as VPC 
 is which is the way it's like virtual private cloud it's basically like a virtual datacenter where you 
 gonna build everything and basically if you know Route 53 and you know VPC inside out you standard very 
 very good chance of passing this exam. 
 And like I said security identity and compliance is going to be in the very next section and in particular 
 you need to know identity access management inside out to have a good chance of passing your exam. 
 So what are my exam tips. 
 So you've learnt an awful lot already. 
 Just understand the difference between a region and availability zone and an edgy location. 
 A region is a physical location in the world which combines two or more availability zones. 
 And so you have a London region you have a Sydney region Singapore region et cetera and availability 
 zone is one or more discrete data centers each with redundant power networking connectivity housed in 
 separate facilities and then an edge location is just an endpoint for AWB which is used for caching 
 content. 
 Typically this consists of cloud front which is Amazon's content delivery network and we're going to 
 learn about that in the storage section of the course so that is it for this lecture guys. 
 If you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move onto the next lecture where we're going to sign up to an eight of us free tear 
 account.