 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture. 
 So this is a really quick lecture. 
 This is gonna show you how to sign up to the obvious platform. 
 If you've never been to it before. 
 Just go to AWOL at Amazon.com. 
 You have never visited it before. 
 Say create an AWOL account if you have visited it before or say sign in. 
 So go ahead and click up here your screen may look different. 
 Depends on what time of year that your viewing it certainly around summits will look completely different. 
 I'm filming this just after reinvent 2018 see me go ahead and click Create an AWB account that will 
 take me to this landing page if I if you don't see something like that if you see something similar 
 to this. 
 So it's asking you to sign in. 
 Just click here to create a new AWB account and that will take you to the same landing page as well. 
 So it says create an AWB account and I want you to enter your email address in here. 
 This email address is going to be known as your route account log in or route account address and you'll 
 always need access to this email address to make sure you don't enter in a false email address. 
 And here you just go ahead and enter your password and then go ahead and confirm it and then down here 
 in your AWB account name. 
 I want you to enter something that's meaningful to some of the call mine a cloud guru 2019 and once 
 you've done that go ahead and hit continue. 
 Okay it's then going to ask you for your contact information. 
 Change your account type from professional over to personal. 
 Or just make things easy for you because we're not going to use this as a production account. 
 And then I want you to go ahead and fill in all your details and once you've done that click Create 
 Account and continue it will then ask you for your payment information go ahead and fill in your credit 
 card details and then hit submit. 
 So we now need to confirm our identity. 
 What we need to do is just enter in this captcha code so BND FNB can enter that in here. 
 Then I'm gonna go ahead and click on contact me. 
 That's then going to give me this unique four digit number and Amazon are going to call my phone and 
 all I need to do now is basically enter that in when Amazon call my phone and that will then go ahead 
 and confirm my identity. 
 Once you've done that you should be able to see the following screen. 
 And here we go sir. 
 Identity has been verified successfully go ahead and hit on continue. 
 We then have our support plans in here. 
 We've got three or four different types of support plans to get our basic plan develop a plan our business 
 plan and our enterprise level support. 
 I would go ahead and click on basic. 
 This can be a very popular exam topic knowing the differences between the four different support levels. 
 Essentially if you're ever asked for wanting a technical account manager you're going to need enterprise 
 level support and you have to be spending fifteen thousand dollars a month in order to get enterprise 
 support. 
 So go ahead and click on basic that will then load this screen saying welcome to NWS and you can personalize 
 your experience. 
 I'm not going to go ahead and do that. 
 I'm just going to go ahead and sign into the consoles to click into the sign into the console and there 
 you go. 
 You are now registered with AWB and you're able to sign in to the AWB as console and you would need 
 to be able to sign in to do the rest of this course to go ahead and sign in and let's move onto the 
 next lecture. 
 Do you have any questions please let me know if not feel free to move onto the next lecture. 
 Thank you.