Well hi there.
This is Scott Duffy.
And I want to do an update to a previous video talking about performance testing within Microsoft exams.
These are the labs questions or performance test questions.
So this is everything we know about labs.
So labs are if you don't know a live environment that is popped up inside of the exam.
So you're at the exam center or you're taking the exam from home and in the process of taking the exam
you are going to be asked to go into a live Microsoft Azure portal and perform some tests.
Now you're not gonna be using your own account.
Microsoft will give you an account to use not all the exams contain them but more and more exams are
being added.
So now we're up to five codes that are confirmed to have these lab questions 1 0 3 of course.
Three hundred but now A's at three a one is reported to having labs.
If you haven't seen it then it's coming.
The dev ops examines it 400 in the security exam so labs are basically spreading into more and more
exams.
We are also hearing less and less problems with them.
So it used to be quite rampant or common to hear people saying they had trouble with labs.
I think some of that that must be solved because we're not hearing that as much so keep in mind that
these performance tests questions they are quite significant in your exam You might have two separate
sets of Performance Lab questions and together out of all of the questions on the exam it could be something
like 25 percent of your end up score.
So if you don't perform the labs you're making it very difficult for you to pass the test.
So people are often asking you know what kind of topics are should we expect to see within a performance
lab test.
Well the simple answer is when you look at the exam syllabus and the curriculum that Microsoft puts
out all of them write everything that Microsoft could possibly ask is in scope.
So you in this exam.
This is the A's at 300 as an example.
All of these topics that are listed on the exam could potentially be something that they want you to
do yourself in the portal so I just went through the A's at three hundred syllabus really quick and
I found a virtual machines web apps functions storage virtual networks.
These are all the infrastructure elements the application elements containers databases scaling.
I mean almost anything.
Now when you think about it when you really think about what it is they're trying to test and the purpose
of the test what would they not be able to ask.
And like they couldn't ask you like to create an express route Gateway like you're just not going into
those hybrid scenarios.
BP ends there is not asking you to do life coding.
So there's no C sharp power shall CLIA as mandatory things.
They're not going to ask you to create brand new certificates and upload existing certificates and so
let's rule out some of those really more esoteric elements.
But the basic core stuff all that is on the syllabus and that's a lot of it is still pretty much fair
game now I've said this before and Microsoft reached out and said that there's some complexity here
but you can imagine that let's say they want you to do something but it's going to take a long time
to set this up right.
So you need to encrypt the virtual machine hard disk and so you need to go through this and these things
can take a while to run.
So it turns out Microsoft has said that they they basically are testing you on the initiation of the
tests not on the completion of the task.
And so if it's going to take 45 minutes to encrypt a hard disk they can still verify that you've you've
you know fired off that thing correctly so maybe there's a little bit.
The time is not as much a factor in terms of what they can and can't test you as it as I thought it
was at some point so they didn't clarify they were testing on the initiation of the task not on the
completion of the test.
I have a few more minutes here.
I'm going to actually simile a performance test question if you don't mind so we're going to pick up
a question and I'm going to go into the Azure lab the Azure portal and the do what it says just as an
example.
So let's say you're you're going to give you an Azure environment.
They're going to give you a user and password not using your own.
It's going to have some existing resources and pretty much that I'm told there are between eight and
12 questions for each environment.
OK there is this thing that in general they're not dependent on each other but I've also been told that
sometimes you'll be asked to create something like a web app and then sometimes you'll have to then
go and modify that web app or do something additional.
And so there is a dependency between some questions they haven't been able to completely avoid that.
So here's an example let's say you have a a lab that has a resource group name test one and they want
you to create a new web app and that new web app hazy funky name to it in East-West region using a certain
app service plan.
So let's pull a portal into into view here and I'm going to keep it so I can switch back and forth.
But the what the question says the resource group is named test 1 and they they want this kind of name
for it.
So I'm gonna go into you'll see the resource groups already exist.
So going to go into test one here and I need to create a web app in the east U.S. region so I can say
ad it's going to pop up here.
I can either go down here or I can type web app create
it is in the test one resource group we verify that it's matching what they expect.
It has to have a name.
So let's be very very careful here that it's Ricky.
1 8 8 7 6 5 somebody has already taken this.
Probably they watched my previous tutorial.
So let's imagine here that it's six.
All right.
So the question itself doesn't tell you what type of app to create.
So I'm just going to assume that it's dot net app.
The other thing that was part of this it has to be in the east U.S. region and it has to be a standard
S1 plan.
So by this point just clicking the create button that should pass this test.
Right.
So I have now successfully performed the the things that they've asked me to.
And we can see that it took me about three minutes to do that the other.
The next question down.
We can then continue.
We got to wait for this to continue to complete.
Right.
We can just continue on the next question down.
Ask me to add a deployment slot to staging in a particular app so test one resource group contains an
existing app called legendary app.
Let's go look at the question it says add a second deployment slot.
So now I'm looking for the deployment slots under deployment here.
There's only one and we need to add as a slot and it's called staging and assuming leaving the defaults
there.
And so now with this action we've now performed the tasks that it's being asked.
So those two questions to give you an idea of what a performance lab is they're going to give you very
specific actions.
And your job is to follow those requests successfully and then Microsoft's going gonna be able to test
to see that that was actually done.
They're going to be able to go into legendary app and see that a deployment slot has been requested.
They've been able to go into the brand new web app that I've been asked to create.
And even if the deployment is still being created it's able to check that that succeeded.
I'm going to skip over the next set of questions as well but these are all examples of the types of
questions that they're going to want you to do so to summarize these performance lab is a live environment
can Azure portal they give you a very specific task they want you to do and whether you do it with the
portal whether you start up the ash cloud shell and do a power shell or a C apply however you get it
done you can get it done in the it's going to cover anything that's a topic of the exam.
So this has been Scott thank you so much for checking this out.
Hopefully that this gives you a little bit of comfort in the way that performance labs go.
Little bit of information you have any questions if you've seen something or you've heard something
please let me know.
Leave a comment in the bottom of this video and look at all through all of the collective knowledge
of all of us are going to figure this out.
And hopefully this will help you prepare for your upcoming test.
And good luck.
Thanks.
