So let's talk about what's changing with Microsoft certification programs during Microsoft ignite 2013.
Microsoft announced a number of exam changes they are focusing more on rule based exams and moral based
certifications.
Now we know that Microsoft has had rule based certifications for Azure for some time.
Looking back you can see the 70 dash 5 3 2 exam was focused on developing role 470 dash 5 3 3 was focused
on infrastructure implementation role and the 70 dash 5 3 4 and then 70 dash 5 3 5.
We're focused on the architecture role but Microsoft is actually splitting up each of those tests into
two.
What they found is that the Microsoft Azure platform has just gotten so big and so broad that it's now
starting to be divergent what people's actual roles within an enterprise are.
So when you are an Azure developer you might not have full exposure to every single piece of Azure that
could be developed for.
And so splitting up that exam into two smaller exams actually makes a bit more sense.
It allows Microsoft to test more topics and test them more thoroughly and basically keeps their certifications
being valuable.
On screen is an example of this split.
This is the Azure solution architecture role.
You can see that on the left you have an architect.
And now instead of taking seventy five three five they need to take two exams A-Z it three hundred and
A-Z three a one.
Now the A-Z three hundred exam talks about technologies and the is three all one exam talks about design
you'll look along the technologies line you can see we're talking about data security we're talking
about infrastructure we're talking about developing for the cloud.
That's why this is a technologies exam.
But when you look at the A-Z 3 0 1 exam which is the design exam you're dealing with more theoretical
topics about architecture such as your approach to security how you handle certain workloads.
How do we do architecture.
How do we work in an Agile environment et cetera.
Now these two exams together the A-Z three hundred and the A's three of one will earn you the certified
Azure architect expert certification.
Now here are some tips for taking Microsoft certifications.
I can say that when I was at ignite this year I actually did sit a couple of exams that follow a new
style and in a new format.
Now in these exams Microsoft never tells you they publish the exact number of questions because it actually
changes.
So when you sit the exam and when I sit the exam we're going to see slightly different numbers of questions
in the last exam that I said I got 54 questions.
And again you might get a different number of questions.
Now I think two and a half hours is pretty standard.
And so you're going to get more questions if they are easier and you're going to get less questions
if they are harder in order to fit into that time frame I've never had a problem with time running out
on any Microsoft certification and especially not these new ones.
Actually I think I ended with at least an hour left of the two and a half hours when I hit the submit
for review button.
So that gives you a lot of time to review questions but not all questions are viewable.
And as you go through various sections of the exam you can't then go back and rereview them after
I should say that some questions are worth more than one point so that the good thing about this is
the exam actually tells you which questions are worth more than one point.
Typically when you see a drag things in a particular order it'll see each correct answer is worth a
point.
And so you know you're going to get scored on each of them and not just a single point for getting all
the answers right.
And in the correct order there is also nothing deducted from wrong answers.
So I absolutely recommend that you not leave a single question blank.
You can skip questions as long as you're able to go back and review them.
But I never skip skip questions and I always take a guess.
So spend a minute or two on the question take a guess.
If you need to and then mark that question for review later there is no deduction for wrong answers
and you should never leave anything blank.
Now Microsoft has moved beyond the multiple choice world.
There's quite a lot of multiple choice questions but many of them are different.
You'll find that Microsoft is asking these questions in the context of a case study or in the context
of more sophisticated questioning.
And there are section of the exam where you answer the question you just cannot go back to it ever again
like no reviewable questions.
There's not even the option of Mark for review.
So keep an eye out for those and take extra care as you're going through those questions.
Now I should also let you know there's a brand new question typed up Microsoft's announced and is already
part of the azure exams.
This question is called performance based testing.
It's basically a hands on lab built into the exam.
You're basically going to be given a hands on lab that you can log in to which is an Azure portal account
with a temporary user I.D. and password and you're given a set of seven to nine Tests to perform.
The objective is to complete each task.
And Microsoft isn't going to care how you get it done.
As long as you've got the test done so Microsoft has the technology to grade you on the result.
And so when they're asking you to create a virtual machine using the following properties then they
can go in after the fact and make sure that that virtual machine exists with the temporary account with
the properties that they instructed you to make so the good thing is Microsoft is saying that the tasks
are mostly not dependent upon each other.
So you should not expect a set of tests where the first step is to create a virtual network.
And the second step is to add an extra subnet to it in the third step is to add a virtual machine to
that subnet because that means if you can't create the virtual network for whatever reason then you're
going to fail the other tests automatically.
You shouldn't expect that Microsoft is going to try to set you up to fail by getting one of your early
tests wrong.
So if you can't compete a test typically it will only affect you for a single question.
