Now one thing that I relied on when I took the test was that it's almost impossible to have memorized
all of the commands within an Azure power shell and also Azure CLIA.
But the good news is there is a kind of predictable naming system for commands.
We can't have an expectation that when we want to go do something within the power shell or within Seelye
that Microsoft follows a predictable naming system and I'm going to talk to you just a second about
this trick.
This is again mostly for taking the test being presented with commands that you might not be have memorized
and which is the best way to guess it.
So let's look at the Seelye first.
This is also our first exposure to what the CLIA commands look like.
There is a web page if you look for Azure CLIA reference and I'll put the links into the resources section
of this video but there is a reference for this so you can go and review all the Azure CLIA commands
and I do recommend that.
But if we look at the CLIA commands for virtual machines they follow this type of naming system.
So CLIA always starts with a Z or a Z depending on where you're from.
So the a z V M and then a verb.
OK so easy VM list will list you all of the virtual machines on your subscription.
A Z VM create is starting the process of creating virtual machine of course a lot of properties and
parameters required for that easy VM delete will delete a virtual machine again you do have to provide
properties and parameters to delete a virtual machine so we can see here this is for virtual machines
they use the VM abbreviation easy VM and then a verb but then we look at something like the Azure key
vault then the same naming system applies instead of easy VM It's easy key vote and then you can say
list create delete the same verbs for Keeble as for virtual machines we get into something a little
bit more complicated when it comes to virtual networks there abbreviated as V net but that's actually
a sub category of the network a service so as you can see there's actually two words easy.
Network v net list and that's how you list all the virtual networks on your account and it gets more
complicated than that.
If you want to talk about subnets subnets or sub components of vignettes and vignettes or subcomponents
of the network and so a Z network v net subnet list will eschew all of the subnets you do have to provide
the virtual network as a as a resource there but basically you can see that there's this.
It starts with a Z it ends with a verb and in the middle R is an abbreviated name of the service and
sometimes it's one word.
Most times it's one word.
Sometimes it's two words or three words depending on the category.
Now if we go over to the power show power shows also similarly predictable.
There is a power cell reference.
Now if you look I'll put the link again.
But if you see the partial reference it's a it's a I would recommend both for Seelye power show if you're
into administration as a career you should have these bookmarks you should have this readily available
if you ever need to reference it but instead of the Seelye being a Z VM list you have the verb as the
first part of the word and so it's get get hyphen a Z VM and that's the power shall command equivalent
to a Z VM list in CLIA instead of create it's new instead of delete it's removed so there's not that
consistency between the verb names between partial and CLIA but the same way that you can go from service
to service and have the same naming structure you go get a Z VM for virtual machines get a Z key vault
for key vaults and get a Z virtual networks for virtual networks writes doesn't it.
The abbreviation the way that's a seal II does.
But you see the consistency between the verb names the AC is always there and the service name and they're
just in different orders.
Some have a space in SEAL has a spacing structure and power shell it's all smushed together as a single
word.
But these are the commands that you're going to need to sort of memorize and then sort of be able to
into it when you're taking a test and they're asking you about the you know for instance about the virtual
network subnets.
Looking at this and saying yeah that does looked even if you didn't memorize this.
If you can look at this and say yes get is a proper partial verb the AC is their virtual network is
a proper service name.
Virtual Network subnet is a proper service name etc..
So you looking at this and a bunch of other random ones you might be able to just guess this without
even having to know it because you know of the naming structure.
So go into those reference documents again the links will be in the resources for this video and have
a look at the the way that these commands are named and recognize that pattern.
And so when you take the test you build a guess two or three of the questions simply because not that
you memorized it but that you know that that's a proper way that a C power shell comment is formatted.
