 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clubbers and welcome to this lecture. 
 So this is the very last theoretical lecture. 
 Before we can start getting our hands dirty in the AWB console. 
 So this lecture is on identity access management soften referred to as I am. 
 You might be wondering what those y'know ones mean basically in Australian universities as well as some 
 British and American institutions when you're learning a new topic. 
 It's no accounting 1 0 1 or you know engineering 1 hour one so identity access management 1 0 1 means 
 that this is an introductory topic to identity access management. 
 So what is I am or basically I am allows you to manage users and their level of access to the Adobe's 
 console. 
 And it's really important to understand IAM and how it works both for the exam and for administrating 
 accompanies Adobe U.S. account in real life. 
 Basically if you're gonna use eight of us you need to understand I am because I am allows you to set 
 up users groups permissions and roles and basically allows you to grant access to different parts of 
 the AWB platform so identity access management offers the following features it gives you centralized 
 control of your AWB account it gives you shared access to your AWB account gives you granular permissions 
 so you can say okay I want people to be able to access this service but I don't want people to be able 
 to access that service gives you identity FEDERATION What do we mean by that. 
 Well it just means that you can use Active Directory or Facebook or Linked In with identity access management 
 so potentially your users could log into the AWB console using the same username and password that they 
 used to log into their windows piece. 
 So that's just using Active Directory or it could mean that your end users let's say you have develop 
 a mobile game or something and it's storing information on AWB as they can do that using their Facebook 
 credentials or their LinkedIn credentials et cetera. 
 I am also gives you multi factor authentication. 
 This means that when you logging in to the database management console you need a username a password 
 and then a special code in order to log in and then it also provides temporary access for users or devices 
 and services where necessary and a good example of that again is if someone's using a mobile phone app 
 and they're storing data in your AWOL account they only want them to be able to do that when they're 
 using the app itself. 
 So it's temporary access but also allows you to set up your own password rotation policy so you may 
 want your users to you know rotate their passwords every three months or every three weeks entirely 
 up to you. 
 And it integrates with many different AWB services and it supports PCI DSW compliant so PCI DNS compliance 
 just is basically a compliant framework that if you're taking credit card details you need to be compliant 
 with the framework. 
 So I am supports PCI DSD. 
 So going to learn some key terminology for I am really four key terms that we need to learn. 
 So one is users and this is just simply end users such as people employees of an organisation et cetera. 
 We then have groups. 
 So this is a collection of users so each user in the group will inherit the permissions of the group. 
 So you might have a group that is able to access S3 and you might have another group that's able to 
 access to. 
 So long as that user is in that group that user will inherit the permissions of the group. 
 We then have policies policies are made up at these things called documents policy documents and these 
 documents are formatted in Jason. 
 So java script Object Notation language and I'll show you what that looks like later on. 
 And it basically gives you permissions as to what a user group or role is able to do. 
 So policies are your permissions and then roles are basically you create a role and you assign them 
 to a W as a resource a role is a way of allowing one part of AWB to do something with another part so 
 you might give a virtual machine inside AWB as the ability to write files to S3 which is a type of storage 
 within eight of us. 
 We're gonna have a look at that in the easy to section of the course. 
 So that is coming up. 
 So what is the best way to learn. 
 I am. 
 Well like anything with AWB is the best way to learn is by getting your hands dirty so that's the end 
 of this lecture. 
 If you've got the time please join me in the next lecture where we're going to log into the AWB console 
 if you have any questions please let me know if not feel free to move onto the next lecture. 
 Thank you.