 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clunkers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at s three transfer 
 acceleration so what is s three transfer acceleration. 
 Well you did talk about it in a little bit of detail in the S3 1 0 1 but essentially it utilizes the 
 cloud front edge network to accelerate your uploads into S3 and instead of uploading directly to an 
 S3 bucket you can use a distinct U.R.L. to upload directly to an edge location which will then transfer 
 that file to S3 and you'll get a distinct you are able to upload. 
 So it might look something like this a cloud guru dot S3 hyphen accelerate dot Amazon NWS dot com and 
 we're gonna see that when we go over to Google. 
 So just a reminder as to how it works we've got a bucket let's say it's in Ireland or in the UK got 
 our users all around the world our users will upload to an age location first that will then upload 
 the file across Amazon's backbone network directly to our S3 bucket. 
 What's really cool about transfer acceleration is Amazon has built a tool that allows us to test it. 
 So let's go over to Google and check that out. 
 Okay so I've typed in S3 transfer acceleration tool into Google and you can see the link here and it 
 is actually hosted in an S3 bucket. 
 So if you go ahead and click on it it will load this page and it's going to take about five or six minutes 
 to actually start to actually finish. 
 But basically it's going to compare your upload doing it directly to all these different regions compared 
 to if you turn on S3 transfer acceleration. 
 So I'm just going to pause video for five minutes and wait for this to finish. 
 Okay so that has now completed so you can see if I am based in London right now and if I was uploading 
 to S3 directly. 
 That would be my speed and if I use it if I used S3 transfer acceleration then it would be 137 per cent 
 faster to Northern Virginia. 
 It'd be 218 per cent faster says San Francisco 173 percent faster to Oregon it's actually slower to 
 Dublin and this can be explained just by a sort of normal network traffic. 
 So basically the regions that are closest to you and where you physically are sometimes it can be a 
 bit slower. 
 It really just depends. 
 But in most cases you can see basically everywhere it is faster. 
 So that is S3 transfer acceleration. 
 And in terms of my exam tips just remember exactly what it is you've got your users you've got your 
 edge locations and your users upload their big files to the locations which then traverse Amazon's backbone 
 network and will upload those files directly to your S3 bucket in the region that you specify. 
 So that is it for this lecture goes if you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not let's move on to cloud front.