 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers. 
 And welcome to this lecture. 
 This is a theoretical lecture on cloud front. 
 So what is cloud front. 
 We have covered this often a little bit of detail but now we're going to deep dive on cloud front. 
 A cloud front is a Content Delivery Network or CBN. 
 And basically a Content Delivery Network is a system of distributed servers or a network that delivers 
 web pages and other web content to a user based on the geographic locations of the user. 
 The origin of the web page and the content delivery server. 
 So let's have a look at what a CDO looks like. 
 So so we've got our Web site which is hosted in London. 
 And we've got our users who are all around the world and our users when they go to our Web site. 
 They're going to go directly to London and pull that content down. 
 So that's what happens when you do not have a CNN abled. 
 Basically if you have your work web servers in London and you've got all your media files so your images 
 your videos et cetera every single individual has to go. 
 And essentially they're connecting into that server across the Internet and they're pulling those files 
 down literally across oceans. 
 And it can take time to load. 
 So before we explore what cloud front is and how it works we need to understand some key terminology. 
 I'm going to start with each location. 
 So I'm sure you know an edge location is by now. 
 But let's just explain it. 
 So this is basically a location where content is going to be cached and this is separate to an AWOL 
 region or availability zone and Origin is the origin of all the files that the citizen will distribute. 
 So this could be an S3 bucket and easy to instance an elastic load balance or even route 53 and in the 
 next lecture we're going to go in and create we're going to use an S3 bucket as our origin. 
 And then finally we have our distributions and this is the name that's given to the CDM which consists 
 of essentially it's a collection of edge locations. 
 So we're going to create a distribution we'll do that in the next lecture. 
 So let's have a look at what how cloud front actually works. 
 So now we've got our web server in London. 
 We've got our users all over the world and we've got our edge locations. 
 Now our first user will do a query to the edge location or say hey I want to watch this video. 
 Do you have a copy of this video. 
 If the location does not have a copy of that what will happen is the location will download that video 
 to the location that now will be cached there and it's going to be cached for the time to live which 
 is always in seconds and where we're going to look at how we can configure that in the next lecture. 
 So basically it's going to be cache there let's say for 48 hours or 72 hours. 
 And what that means is if another user then queries that each location for the same video that video 
 is already downloaded to the edge location and that user will be able to download it a lot quicker because 
 you don't have to go all the way to London to get it. 
 It could be cached in USD one or it could be cash in South America or in South Africa et cetera et cetera 
 et cetera. 
 So that's cloud front and that's how it works. 
 It can be used to deliver your entire Web site including dynamic static and streaming and interactive 
 content using a global network of edge locations and request for your content is automatically routed 
 to the nearest edge location so content is delivered with the best possible performance. 
 You get really good performance out of cloud front with cloud front. 
 You get two different types of distributions you've got your Web distribution. 
 This is typically used for Web sites and that's what we're going to do in the next lecture. 
 And then you've also got your RTM P distributions this is used for Adobe and it's used for media streaming 
 essentially so we will see that again in the next lecture. 
 So what are my exam tips will just remember what an edge location is. 
 This is the location where content will be cache. 
 This is separate to any W.S. region or availability zone. 
 Remember what an origin is this is the origin of all the files that the city and will distribute. 
 This will can either be an S3 bucket or it could be an easy to instance or an elastic load balance or 
 Route 53. 
 So just remember what that is. 
 And then also remember that a distribution is the name that's given to the CDM which is a collection 
 of edge locations and then a Web distribution is typically used for Web sites whereas arty MP is used 
 for media streaming. 
 And then finally you should also remember that each locations are not just read only you can write to 
 them too. 
 I can put objects to them and we did that in the last lecture when we were using transfer acceleration 
 on objects are going to be cached for the time to live the TTL value and we'll look at how we can configure 
 that in the next lecture. 
 And then finally you can clear cached objects you can invalidate an object but you are going to be charged 
 if you do that and that's a really important exam topic that you can invalidate cache contents. 
 So if you've uploaded something and your users are still getting some old data and you've added new 
 data for example you might have added a new video and they're still getting the old video. 
 You can go in and clear those cached objects but you are going to be charged. 
 That's called invalidating the cache so that is it for this lecture. 
 If you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move onto the next lecture where we're going to create our very first cloud front 
 distribution.