 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay Hellicar loggers and welcome to this lecture in this lecture we're going to go ahead and create 
 our first cloud front distribution so this is a lab and you will need to log into the database console. 
 Okay so here I am in the database management console. 
 First thing I'm going to do is just go over to S3 and if you remember from the very start of this section 
 of the course we created this bucket and this had a picture of me and Faye and then my brother and me 
 with Jeff bar. 
 So those are our two images in there. 
 We're going to use this bucket as our origin. 
 So this is what we're going to attach our cloud front distribution to. 
 So to go and get cloud front it's not actually under storage. 
 It's part of networking. 
 So if we just scroll down you'll see it in here. 
 Networking and content delivery and you'll see cloud front in there. 
 So go ahead and click on cloud front and that will open up our cloud front distribution. 
 Now you can see straight away that this is a global service. 
 So cloud front is across the entire world. 
 It's not done on a regional basis. 
 And what we want to do is go ahead and create our first distribution. 
 We have two different types of distribution. 
 We've got a Web distribution and an arty MP distribution. 
 I'm gonna go and do a web distribution RCMP is use for media files using Adobe Adobe's Flash media servers 
 RTM protocol that used to be an exam question doesn't seem to come up as much anymore. 
 But just remember the two different types of distributions. 
 Go ahead and do a web distribution in here we've got our origin domain name. 
 And if you click in here you'll be able to see all our valid origins. 
 And so what I'm gonna do is I'm going to click this one. 
 So it was a cloud guru 2019. 
 Our origin path if you don't know what it is in click in there. 
 But essentially if you have a directory inside your origins so specific directory inside your bucket 
 you can specify the path. 
 I'm not going to go do that Origin I.D. I'm going to it's going to set me up an origin I.D. it's basically 
 sort of you know permissions to access our S3 bucket and I'll leave that as default. 
 You can restrict your bucket access you can basically say that users will always access the S3 content 
 using cloud front you are Els and not Amazon S3 you are LS and that can be quite useful when you're 
 using signs you are ls to restrict your content. 
 I'm not going to do that I'm just going to say no for now and I'm going to leave basically everything 
 as defaults. 
 You can scroll all the way down. 
 Here's where you set your TTL. 
 You've got your minimum your maximum your default so Tito's is just the time to live on for your objects 
 in their edge locations. 
 We can restrict Viewer Access so we can say hey we only want people to be able to use signs you are 
 URLs for our cloud front distribution. 
 So a good example of that say you're a media company maybe you like Netflix and you want to make sure 
 that only users who've paid for your content are able to access it. 
 Just remember that going into your exam that you can restrict access using signed you are ells or sign 
 cookies. 
 I'm not going to do that. 
 I'm just going to leave. 
 Like I said everything is default. 
 You can actually put a web application firewalls on in front of your cloud front distributions we're 
 going to cover off what ifs are later on in this course. 
 But if you already know what that is it's basically a layer 7 firewall so you can do that to increase 
 the security of it. 
 Again I'm not going to do that and we're just going to basically leave everything as default and click 
 Create distribution that is going to go and create and deploy my distribution. 
 Now this can take some time it can take up to 15 20 minutes sometimes up to an hour. 
 It's also the similar when you go and disable it takes time and you need to disable it before you delete 
 it. 
 So I'm just gonna pause the video make myself some lunch and come back when this is ready. 
 Okay. 
 So it's been over an hour and my distribution has now been deployed so you can see the status down here 
 is deployed and we've got the I.D. and we've got the domain name. 
 Now this is the domain name that we would use to connect to our cloud from distribution. 
 So what I want you to do is just copy that into your clipboard. 
 Just gonna hit copy and then we're going to go over to services. 
 We're gonna go over to S3 and we'll be able to go into our S3 Buckets. 
 So main one was called this and I'm going to tape the distributions name forward slash and then Fay 
 Ryan hyphen replay dot JP into my browser I'm going to paste it in here then forward slash so as Fay 
 Ryan hyphen replay dot JP I'm gonna hit enter and then we go it has loaded it and alluded it very very 
 fast so we now know that the distribution is working and it's loading our assets from S3 just gonna 
 go back over to the W as console we go back over to cloud front again it's always under networking. 
 So here it is cloud front I'm going to go back in and have a look at my distribution now what you can 
 do is you can click in here and you can go to your distribution settings and you can start editing your 
 settings can change your distribution after it's been deployed and what I want you to really notice 
 is this invalidation so we can go ahead and create an invalidation and we can validate individual objects 
 or entire directories or entire sub directories et cetera et cetera. 
 See if you did something like forwards slash star that would invalidate basically everything so you 
 can invalidate a distribution and when you invalidating it just means that it's no longer going to be 
 on the edge locations. 
 So you get a scenario question in your exam whether you're talking about you know you push out some 
 data and then you figure out something's wrong and you do an update but it's not showing up correctly. 
 The way to deal with that is to create an invalidation. 
 Let's go ahead and delete this distribution because it's not covered in free tier. 
 So I'm just gonna go in and hit disable and hit disable and that does actually also take some time to 
 take up to 15 minutes. 
 Once it's been disabled then you can click in here and hit delete. 
 So to do that don't leave the distribution we're not going to need it for the rest of this course. 
 So what are my exam tips. 
 So really you just need to understand what cloud front is at a high level. 
 You need to understand what edge locations are says the location where content's going gonna be cached 
 and it's very separate to any WS region or availability zone. 
 We have edge locations all over the world need to understand what an origin is and this is basically 
 just the source of the files that your cloud front distribution will distribute. 
 And this can either be an S3 bucket can be an easy to instance can be an elastic load balance or Route 
 53 etc etc. Then we have our distributions so this is just the name given to the CDM which is a collection 
 of edge locations and our distributions can either be a web distribution which is the one that we just 
 set up or an arty MP distribution which is used for Adobe Flash media streaming and then moving on locations 
 and not just read only so we saw that when we were looking at transfer acceleration you can write to 
 them to see you can put an object on them and objects are cached for the life of the TTL so they're 
 cash for the life of the time to live. 
 And that's always in seconds like we just saw. 
 You can invalidate cached objects but you are going to be charge. 
 So that is it for this lecture goes if you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next lecture.