 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello cloud gurus and welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is a theoretical lecture and it's on snowball so you might be thinking what is snowball. 
 Well this is a snowball. 
 This is what they look like. 
 They're basically big big desks. 
 So a snowball is a petabytes scale data transport solution that uses secure appliances to transfer large 
 amounts of data into and out of AWP. 
 So like I said it's a big desk it's a way of getting a huge amount of data into NWS and you can also 
 use it to export data from eight of us and using snowball addresses common challenges with large scale 
 data transfers including high network costs long transfer times and security concerns. 
 Transferring data would snowball is simple far secure and can be as little as one fifth the cost of 
 using high speed Internet and snowball basically comes in two flavors. 
 You've got 50 terabytes or 80 terabytes. 
 So snowball uses multiple layers of security designed to protect your data including tamper resistant 
 enclosures 256 bit encryption and an industry standard trusted platform module or TPM which is designed 
 to ensure both security and full chain of custody of your data and once your data transfer job has been 
 processed and verified NWS performs a software erasure of the snowball appliance and they do it in such 
 a way that you can't just take a snowball and restore the data from previous customers as well it's 
 completely wiped. 
 So it's basically they nuke it essentially. 
 We also have a snowball edge so snowball edge comes in 100 terabytes worth of data. 
 And this is a device with an onboard storage and compute capabilities. 
 You can actually run like lambda functions from snowball edge. 
 We're going to cover off what lambda is later but essentially this gives you compute and storage and 
 you can use snowball edge to move large amounts of data in and out of eight of us as a temporary storage 
 tier for a large local data sets or also to support local workloads in remote or off line locations 
 and to give you an idea. 
 One of the major airlines they do a lot of testing of the aircraft and they actually have snowball edges 
 in their aircraft and they're not just storing data inside the aircraft but it's also doing compute 
 it's running like lambda functions as well. 
 So it's basically a snowball edge is kind of like having a mini AWB as in your at your disposal. 
 So snowball edge connects to your existing applications and infrastructure using standard storage interfaces 
 streamlining the data transfer process and minimizing set up an integration and snowball edge can cluster 
 together to form local storage tiers and process your data on premise helping ensure your applications 
 continue to run even when they are not able to access the cloud. 
 So like I said it's like having a sort of a portable version of of us. 
 So what a snowmobile or snowmobile is just insane. 
 It's an exabytes scale data transfer service used to move extremely large amounts of data to AWB of 
 us you can transfer up to 100 petabytes per snowmobile and it's basically a 45 foot long rugged AIS 
 shipping container which is being pulled by a semi-trailer truck and it makes it easier to move massive 
 volumes of data. 
 The cloud including video libraries image repositories or even a complete data centre migration and 
 transferring data with snowmobile is secure fast and cost effective. 
 So this is when you should use a snowball so basically we're looking at a different available Internet 
 connections here. 
 So go to T3 which is forty four point seven three six megabits per second we've got 100 megabits per 
 second and then we've got 1000 megabits per second. 
 And if we were pushing a hundred terabytes at those different speeds you can see how long it's going 
 to take. 
 So it's going to take 269 days or 120 days or 12 days. 
 So if you were basically going to use AWOL snowball with those different three different speeds the 
 over here is the different amounts that you should consider using snowball so two terabytes or more 
 for this connection five terabytes or more 100 megabits per second and then 60 terabytes or more for 
 a thousand megabits per second. 
 So that's all snowball is. 
 What are my exam tips. 
 Well just remember what snowball is. 
 Remember that snowball can import to S3 and export from S3 as well and that's really it. 
 You really just need to if you get a scenario based question talking about moving large amounts of data 
 into the AWB cloud you want to use snowball. 
 So the next lectures just a fun lecture. 
 It's completely optional it's where we actually get a snowball and we connect it up and then we basically 
 copy some files to Al snowball and then send it off to AWB. 
 That will not come up in your exam at all. 
 So if you want to skip the next lecture fine but if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 After that we're going to cover off storage Gateway and then we're going to summarize the rest of this 
 section of the course. 
 So if you get a time please join me in the next lecture.