 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture. 
 Like I said in the last lecture this is an entirely optional lecture. 
 This is a lab on snowball. 
 If you have your exam tomorrow and you're trying to cram feel free to skip it. 
 Likewise if you don't really care about watching a snowball in real life. 
 Feel free to skip this lecture and go on to the next one. 
 So let's go over to the U.S. console. 
 Okay so here I am in the AWOL console now we'll find snowball under here it's under migration and transfer. 
 And if you go ahead and click on Snowball now I've got a couple of jobs here. 
 The job that actually worked was called please send me a snowball and we can see that I created the 
 job. 
 The appliance has been prepared a shipment has been prepared it's been shipped to you and now it's been 
 delivered so it is actually here at this stage so it's in my office and by the time I send it back we're 
 going to put it in transit to AWB as it will be at AWB. 
 They'll be importing and then it will be completed. 
 Now it's gonna seem a little bit funny but you know I'm basically just gonna put a text file on this 
 snowball which says hello cloud gurus and send that back to Amazon. 
 So I don't know if they're actually going to see the data or not but you know the data is only gonna 
 be in kilobytes in size and it is a petabytes petabytes size appliance. 
 So they might just think I'm crazy. 
 This was the other one that I had earlier on. 
 This was for the edge and that was the one that they couldn't send me just because demand has outstripped 
 supply it's that has been canceled. 
 Now you can go up here and create a job and go through all these different steps. 
 So plan your job. 
 We're going to import into Amazon S3. 
 We can go ahead and keep hitting next over here. 
 I'm not going to go through all this because you can do it yourself if you want but you're just filling 
 in things like your address details you need to set up an S3 bucket for it. 
 You need to set your encryption and then you're basically setting notifications which is using S and 
 S which will cover later on in the course but essentially it sends you automatic emails telling you 
 that your snowball is en route and then you just review everything and hit complete. 
 So what I'm gonna do now I'm just going to go back to the snowball lending scheme and I'm going to go 
 here I'm going to get the client so I'll need the client in order to connect to my snowball so I am 
 using Mac OSX currently so I'm just gonna go ahead and download that and once it's downloaded I'm gonna 
 go ahead and install it on my Mac and then what we'll do is we'll look at the snowball see what it looks 
 like and how we can plug it in. 
 Okay. 
 So here we are. 
 We've got no snowball. 
 It has finally arrived. 
 Like I said this is not a snowball. 
 It's just a standard snowball and it's very big. 
 It's very heavy as well. 
 Actually I was surprised how heavy it is. 
 Not quite a breath out of breath just taking it upstairs. 
 I so let's have a look at what each individual component does. 
 Okay so this is the front of the snowball and you can see we've got this little thing just down here 
 it's like a little handle that we've got to open up and it says Open this panel first flip it to lie 
 on top of the case and you can see my Snowball has been damaged by somebody else. 
 If you're watching this that's how it arrived. 
 That's what I'm going to do is just go ahead and open this panel and flip it back up onto the top of 
 the case. 
 So all we do is we push in this little button here push this up and that opens up the top of the case 
 and then we can stay in here. 
 This is our Kindle that we're going to use in order to access our snowball. 
 Next thing we need to do is just turn it around. 
 We've got to open up this panel on the back. 
 We just click in this button push it up and in here we can see at the very top you've got the power 
 cables and the ethernet cables et cetera. 
 And so here's our power cables and our Ethernet cables. 
 And what I'm going to do is I'm going to unwind all of this. 
 I'm going to plug in the power and then I'm going to plug the ethernet cable into my router or router. 
 What if however you wanted to pronounce it whether you're Australian or American downstairs and then 
 what I'm going to do is fire up the snowball client. 
 One thing to note is that the snowball doesn't come with its own power elite. 
 You just you do need your own adapter. 
 It's just a standard kettle plug though. 
 So we're just gonna plug that in now. 
 Okay so everything's plugged in and all we need to do now is go down here and down just above the Kindle 
 you can see there's a power button can turn that on. 
 Boom. 
 It's quite noisy. 
 So what I'm going to do now is I'm just going to go back over to my P.C. and I'm going to go ahead and 
 install the command line tools I'm not sure how to do that. 
 Okay. 
 And it actually took a little bit of time for my snowball to be ready but once it is ready you'll see 
 this ready screen and you can see I'm using RJ 45 or standard Ethernet in order to connect in but you 
 can also use SFP and you can use copper or optical fibre as well. 
 Okay. 
 So now we've installed the snowball command line tools but in order to use it you actually need to get 
 our credentials. 
 We need to go into our snowball dashboard and we just need to click in here and hit get credentials 
 and then you'll need these credentials to authenticate your access to the appliance. 
 So this is my unlock code. 
 And then this is my manifest file so I'm going to download my manifest file and then I'm going to copy 
 and paste my unlock code into my clipboard and I'm going to move that manifold file over to this same 
 directory as my command line. 
 Okay. 
 So we need to start the snowball service now so I'm going to just type in forward slash and then snowball 
 and then what I need to do is do I. 
 Then the sorry start. 
 And then what we need to do is the location network location. 
 So it's 1 9 2 1 6 8 dot 1 dot 1 1 6. 
 We then need to link the manifest files so we need to go minus M and then we need to type in the the 
 manifest file which I think is that one. 
 And there we go. 
 And then what I need to do is then enter in my unlock code and this is the unlock code for my manifest. 
 So it's minus you and I've just went back over to my browser and got it from the snowball splash screen. 
 And that should be it. 
 Go ahead and hit enter. 
 And that should start up my snowball. 
 There you go. 
 So it says ready to transfer when you finish runs snowball stop. 
 So we're already to transfer over our appliance. 
 So in order to do that I'm just going to create a new file. 
 So it's just going to be echo Hello cloud gurus going to output that to a Hello Dot text file. 
 So if we type in L S we can see my Hello Dot text t if I nano. 
 Hello Dot text you can just have a look. 
 Make sure it's in there. 
 So there you go. 
 I can't believe we're actually going to send this to Amazon on a snowball so I'm going to clear the 
 screen. 
 Okay. 
 So now it's really really easy to use. 
 All they need to do is type in snowball actually. 
 Just do it like this. 
 So snowball. 
 And then copy. 
 And then we need our file name. 
 So it's hello. 
 Dot text T. 
 And then we need the directory or the the bucket namespace that we created for this snowball job. 
 Now if you do forget it in come over here to your browser go view job details click on details and in 
 here you can see resources bucket. 
 And so mine's called a cloud guru snowball. 
 So I'm just going to copy that into my clipboard pasted in here and then go ahead and hit enter 
 and there we go. 
 It has now transferred my file over to my snowball and it is all ready to be sent back to Amazon. 
 So we've created an eight byte file. 
 We've transferred it over to our snowball. 
 And now I'm going to arrange for Amazon to come and pick this snowball up. 
 We're gonna send it back to AWB. 
 And they're going to then transfer that tax file over to my S3 bucket. 
 So I really hope you have enjoyed this lecture guys again. 
 It's just good to know what a snowball is at a high level and how it all works. 
 If you ever do go out and get one there are lots of fun. 
 But don't do what I did and just copy one single text file and then put it into S3. 
 I might actually do a local backup of our iCloud bureau directory of a cloud guru file server and put 
 that into S3. 
 So I might not just send them back a text file but we'll see. 
 Okay. 
 So if you've got questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next lecture. 
 Thank you.