 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers and welcome to the very last theoretical lecture this section of the course. 
 So this is on storage gateway. 
 Now I'll be honest I did the exam about two days ago and storage Gateway didn't come up. 
 However it is used to be a top a very popular exam topic and you should still know what it is because 
 a lot of people do use storage gateway to move data into AWB. 
 So what is storage Gateway. 
 Well it comes in a bunch of different flavors but basically it's a service that connects an on premise 
 software appliance with cloud based storage to provide seamless and secure integration between an organization's 
 on premise I.T. environment and Adobe as a storage infrastructure and the service enables you to securely 
 store data to the AWB cloud for scalable and cost effective storage. 
 So does that actually mean. 
 Well let's have a look at our data center. 
 So we've got storage Gateway here and storage Gateway is basically a virtual or physical device and 
 it's going to replicate your data into AWB as now it always used to be a virtual device. 
 But they have released hardware appliances now so you can actually have a physical storage Gateway as 
 well. 
 So storage gateways software appliance is available for you to download as a virtual machine image that 
 you install on a host in your data center and storage Gateway supports either VM where's ASX AI or Microsoft's 
 hyper v as the hypervisor. 
 So that's a hypervisor is just what you run virtual machines on. 
 And once you've installed your gateway and associate it with your Adobe s account through the activation 
 process you can use the AWB management console to create this storage Gateway option that is right for 
 you. 
 It's a storage Gateway comes in effectively three different flavors and they are as follows. 
 So we have our final Gateway and this is either NFC East or SMB. 
 We then have our volume Gateway and this is using ice scuzzy so file Gateway is basically a way of storing 
 files in S3 whereas volume Gateway is a way of storing basically copies of your hard disk drives or 
 virtual hard disk drives in S3. 
 And there's two different types of volume Gateway you've got your stored volumes and then you've also 
 got your cached volumes as well. 
 And then finally we have tape Gateway and this is a virtual tape library. 
 So let's go ahead and have a look at all of them. 
 So we'll start with file Gateway. 
 This is basically where files are stored as objects in your S3 Buckets and their access through a network 
 file system or NFC mount point and then ownership permissions and timestamps are durables stored in 
 the S3 in the user metadata of the object associated with the file. 
 And once objects are transferred to S3 they can be managed as native S3 objects and bucket policies 
 such as versioning lifecycle management and cross region replication can apply directly to objects stored 
 in your buckets. 
 You can have all the goodness of S3. 
 So it's basically a way of connecting your on premise infrastructure to S3 so here's a good example. 
 Got our application server here. 
 It's using an NFL mount point to storage gateway that then connects in over the Internet or over direct 
 connection which we're going to cover off later on in the networking section of the course as well as 
 Amazon VPC and then it's going to store your files in S3. 
 And this diagram slightly out of date it has S3 I.A. doesn't have S3 with intelligent tearing and it 
 doesn't have the two different types of glacier but you get the point here basically as a way of storing 
 your application servers data into S3 so let's all file Gateway is volume Gateway is basically presents 
 your applications with the ice scuzzy block protocol. 
 So basically you can use you know virtual hard disk drives and data written to these volumes can then 
 be asynchronously backed up as point in time snapshots of your volumes and stored in the cloud as IBM 
 snapshots and the snapshots are incremental backups that capture only change blocks and all the snapshot 
 storage is also compressed to minimize your storage charges. 
 So volume Gateway basically is a way of storing your virtual you know virtual hard disk drives in S3 
 and it looks like IBM snapshots. 
 Now don't worry we haven't covered off what IBS is yet. 
 We will cover that off in E2 in the very next section of the course. 
 But just think of volume gateway as a way of storing virtual hard disk drives in the cloud and it comes 
 in two different flavors we've got stored volumes. 
 And this allows you to store your primary data locally so you always have a complete copy of your data 
 locally in your data center and it's backing that data up to AWB of and stored volumes provide geo on 
 premise applications with low latency access to their entire data sets. 
 So with stored volumes it's just tremendous and it's really important to remember that it's the entire 
 data set and it's going to provide durable offsite backups and you can create storage volumes and mount 
 them on an ice scuzzy drive from your on premise application servers and then data to your stored volumes 
 is stored on your on premise storage hardware and this data is then asynchronously backed up to S3 in 
 the form of IBM snapshots and at the moment is between 1 gig to 16 terabytes in size for stored volumes. 
 If that has changed don't worry about it you're never going to be tested on volume sizes in the AWOL 
 exam it's always going to be scenario based questions. 
 So this is what it looks like here. 
 We've got our users and our client they're using the application servers. 
 This then uses an ice scuzzy connection to our host and this is our host is running our gateway virtual 
 machines and essentially you creating volumes on this host. 
 And then what's happening is the virtual machine is then replicating these volumes up to E.W. s and 
 storing it as snapshots in s three case volumes are slightly different. 
 You do have to remember the differences between them and case volumes is basically it doesn't do the 
 entire data set locally. 
 It is only doing the most frequently used data in your storage gateway so case volumes minimises the 
 need to scale your on premise storage infrastructure while still providing your applications with the 
 low latency access to their frequently access data so you can create storage volumes of up to 20 32 
 terabytes in size and attach them as ice devices from your on premise application servers. 
 Now your gateway stores the data that you write to these volumes in S3. 
 Just like the last one and it retains recently read data in your on premise storage servers gateways 
 case and upload buffer storage. 
 So it's between 1 and 32 a 1 gig and 32 terabytes in size for case volumes. 
 Again don't worry you'll never be tested on that. 
 It's just important to understand that case volumes is a way of casing the most actively used data. 
 Whereas with stored volumes it's the entire data set. 
 So again here's a diagram we've got our users we've got our application servers it's connecting in through 
 ICRC to our host and our host is running our virtual machine Gateway Gateway BBM. 
 This is also accessing our Sands as storage has had net networking and again that's just like basically 
 a big desk. 
 And then the gateway VM is replicating our information over to S3. 
 So that's how that one works. 
 And then finally we have tape Gateway it offers durable cost effective solution to archive your data 
 in the Adobe us cloud. 
 So it's a way of getting rid of tapes the virtual tape library interface it provides lets you leverage 
 your existing tape base backup application infrastructure to store data on virtual tape cartridges that 
 you create on your tape gateway so if you are already using tapes and different applications software 
 connects into tapes you can actually replace the entire tape infrastructure and just use tape gateway. 
 So it's a really great way of moving your backups to cloud and so each tape Gateway is reconfigured 
 with a media change and tape drives which are available on your existing client backup applications 
 as ice gutsy devices and you can add tape cartridges as you need to archive your data and it's supported 
 by really popular backup backup software like net backup backup exec them et cetera et cetera. 
 And this is where what it looks like. 
 So over here we've got data center a data center. 
 We got our tape drives this is running as a gateway virtual machine. 
 So this is our storage Gateway and essentially is just replicating our virtual tapes to S3 and of course 
 then you can archive them off to Malaysia as well to keep your costs low. 
 So that is it for storage gateway. 
 Like I said I did the exam a couple of days ago and it did not come up at all. 
 It may well have just been moved over to the CIS ops administrator associate. 
 It is a critical you know subject to understand going into a cis ops administrator associate. 
 That being said it is also important to understand it if you do work as a solutions architect especially 
 if you're working with a company that's moving to eight of us and they've got a virtual table. 
 They've got a tape library you have it's good to know that you can actually leverage storage gateway 
 to move that over to virtual tapes and replicate it over to the cloud. 
 So what are my exam tips. 
 Well we've got file Gateway. 
 This is NF s for flat files and it's gonna be stored directly on S3. 
 We've got a volume Gateway which is using a scuzzy. 
 And it consists of two different volumes. 
 So we've got stored volumes stored volumes is your entire data set to be stored on S3. 
 Now we've got cased volumes and this is where your entire data set is still stored on S3. 
 But the most frequently access data is came out on site and with stored volumes the entire data set 
 is stored on site. 
 So that's the difference stored volumes as you've got your entire data set on onsite. 
 Case volumes is where you've only got your most frequently access data cased on site and then we also 
 have Gateway virtual tape library and I have been like I said as well we were talking about that these 
 were virtual appliances or virtual machines. 
 You can also get physical storage Gateway appliances as well now. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys you've done really really well. 
 You're at the end of the S3 and Iam section of the course in the next lecture we're just going to summarize 
 everything that we've learned. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.