 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clunkers and welcome to the very last lecture in the S. three. 
 And I am section of course. 
 Congratulations you've completed your first theoretical and practical section of the course. 
 So we're gonna look at everything we learnt in this section so we learnt that identity access management 
 consists of the following that consists of users groups roles and then you apply policies to these three 
 different things so you apply policy to your users groups and roles you apply a policy to your group 
 and you've got users within that group they're going to inherit that policy automatically. 
 Now I know he didn't really cover off roles much in this section of the course we are going to look 
 at it in more detail in the next section the course. 
 We did create a role when we turned on cross region replications if you actually go into I am and have 
 a look at your roles you'll see a role there for cross region replication. 
 We also learnt about Jason. 
 So this is what the policies look like. 
 So is javascript object notation language. 
 Now I am itself does not come up much in the certified Solutions Architect associate exam anymore. 
 It's all been moved to the security specialty. 
 That being said you can't actually use NWS without knowing I am. 
 So it is really important to understand the core concepts of I am and what users groups roles and policies 
 are. 
 We also learned that I am is universal. 
 It does not apply to regions at this time. 
 The root account is simply the account that is created when you first set up your NWS account and it 
 has complete administrator access. 
 New users have no permissions when first created and you'll find this is a theme within Amazon. 
 It's called least privilege. 
 So whenever you create a new user that user is not going to have any rights or any privileges until 
 you grant them privileges. 
 Likewise when we look at S3 when we create our bucket it's locked down. 
 It's not public and making objects public is not that easy. 
 You have to go through a process to do it. 
 So that's a common theme within Amazon Web Services new users are assigned an access key I.D. and secret 
 access key. 
 When first created these are not the same as a password you cannot use the access key I.D. in secret 
 access key to log into the console you use it to access the AWB via the api is in the command lines. 
 However we are going to look at that in the next section of the course and you only get to view your 
 access key idea and secret access key once if you lose them. 
 You have to regenerate them so make sure you save them in a secure location. 
 So moving on the final bits we learnt about I am is you always set up multi factor authentication on 
 your route account and you can also create and customize your own password rotation policies. 
 So moving away from I am let's look at S3. 
 So remember that S3 is object base. 
 It allows you to upload files and those files can be 0 bytes all the way up to 5 terabytes and there 
 is unlimited storage and you store your files in these things called buckets and it's basically just 
 a folder in the cloud. 
 Now S3 is a universal namespace so that means that your buckets must bucket names must be unique. 
 You can't have test bucket because somebody already owns it. 
 You can't have a cloud guru because somebody already owns it and it's not me sadly. 
 And this is what the U.R.L. looks like when going to S3. 
 So so always S3. 
 Then the region and then dot Amazon W.S. dot com and then forward slash your bucket name. 
 Now remember that S3 is object based storage so it's not suitable to install an operating system on 
 or a database or anything like that. 
 And then when you upload objects to S3 or files to S3 your browser is always going to get a heap GDP 
 200 status code that the upload has been successful. 
 Now by default or newly created buckets are private. 
 You set up access control to your bucket using bucket policies and bucket policies a bucket wide and 
 then you can also use access control lists and these can go down to the individual files or objects 
 in your bucket. 
 I remember that S3 Buckets can be configured to create access logs which logs all requests made to the 
 S3 bucket and these can be sent to another bucket in the same Adobe s account or even another bucket 
 in another AWB account and we go into that architecture a lot in the security specialty there's certain 
 ways you can design your NWS infrastructure to be super secure using multiple accounts moving on the 
 key fundamentals of S3 so basically S3 you've got a key and this is simply the name of the object you've 
 then got a value. 
 And this is simply the data is made up a sequence of bytes. 
 So sometimes people refer to S3 as a key value pair. 
 We then have the version I.D. which we saw when we turned on versioning. 
 We have metadata so we have data about data that we're storing and we do that through tags and then 
 you get some sub resources such as access control lists and then torrents as well. 
 Now remember the consistency model going into your exam for S three so it's read after right consistency 
 of puts of new objects and eventual consistency for overwrite puts and deletes and this can take some 
 time to propagate. 
 And like I said What does that mean in everyday language. 
 Well if you put an object into S3 you're gonna be able to read it immediately if you overwrite an object 
 or delete an object in S3 and you read it instantly after that. 
 You could get the old version or you could get the new version. 
 So sometimes you will get eventually the right version but sometimes it takes some time to propagate 
 then. 
 Seriously this is a big exam topics worth at least four or five marks. 
 You have to understand the different S3 classes of storage so got S3 standard. 
 That's what most people use S3 infrequently access. 
 So this is where you want the same sort of durability and availability as standard S3 but you'd you 
 want to pay a lower fee but you still need instant access to S3 and frequently access would then have 
 S3 one zone and frequently access. 
 This is only gonna be in one availability zone. 
 You have to plan for that but it is a much lower cost S3 intelligent tearing uses machine learning to 
 move your objects around depending on how often you use them S3 glacier is for data archival And you 
 can configure your retrieval time from minutes to hours and then we have S3 glacier deep archive and 
 this is basically Amazon's lowest cost storage class but you will have a retrieval time of 12 hours 
 moving on let's talk about encryption so encryption and transit is achieved by using HDD P S and tell 
 us so every time you go and visit a site Google dot com. 
 If you've got to reach TDD s in the browser that means or that traffic is going to be encrypted. 
 So if someone is in the middle trying to listen to that they won't be able to figure out what it is 
 you're viewing on Google's. 
 That's how we do encryption in transit. 
 So in terms of how this relates to S3 whenever you go to a w w on Amazon.com and you go into the S3 
 console so long as you're using HTC yes. 
 All the traffic all the files that you're uploading are going to be encrypted so that's encrypted encryption 
 in transit now S3 also has encryption at rest and this is achieved by both the server side encryption 
 as well as client side encryption on the service side it's achieved by three different ways. 
 So we've got S3 managed keys. 
 This is where S3 just handle all our encryption for us and we don't have to worry about it. 
 Got a WS key management service or K M.S. this is where we can start using keys from the K M.S. service 
 and we cover this in an awful lot of detail in the certified security specialty. 
 And then we've got server side encryption with customer provided keys. 
 So this is where you provide your keys and you manage the encryption and then the actual you know maintenance 
 of those keys and then we also have client side encryption. 
 So this is where you encrypt the objects and then you upload them to S3. 
 So that is encryption with S3 on AWB is moving on to cross region replication. 
 Basically you just need to understand what it is. 
 It it is definitely worth 1 or 2 marks in the exam versioning must be enabled on both the source and 
 destination buckets regions must be unique you cant to cross region replication to the same region because 
 of then it's not cross region and then we have files an existing bucket are not going to be replicated 
 automatically when you turn cross region replication on all subsequent updated files will be replicated 
 automatically delete markers are not replicated and deleting individual versions or delete markers will 
 not be replicated. 
 So basically going into your exam it's really important to understand what cross region replication 
 is at a high level and that's it really moving on to lifecycle policies. 
 So what is a lifecycle policy. 
 Well basically it automates moving objects between the different storage tiers. 
 That's all the policies are and they can be used in conjunction with versioning and they can be applied 
 to current versions as well as previous versions. 
 Moving on to S3 transfer acceleration. 
 So we have our users there all around the world. 
 We have our edge locations our users will upload their files to the edge locations first and then those 
 files will go over the AWOL backbone network to S3 and we saw how mostly it can improve speed and performance. 
 So if you do need to increase the performance of your you know of your users being able to upload files 
 to S3 look at S3 transfer acceleration. 
 Moving on to cloud front. 
 So we learnt one an edge location was so this is the location where the content is going to be cached 
 and it's separate to an AWOL region or availability zone. 
 We learned what an origin was this is the origin of all Al files that the citizen will distribute and 
 this can either be an S3 bucket an easy to instance or elastic load balance or Route 53 and then we 
 learnt what a distribution was and this is simply the name given to the CDM which consists of a collection 
 of edu locations and then we have two different types of distributions we've got our web distributions. 
 This is typically useful websites and then we've got RTI MP. 
 This is used for Adobe media and its use for media streaming. 
 Also with cloud front we learnt that edge locations are not read only you can write to them as well 
 i.e. put an object to them. 
 So we looked at that with transfer acceleration and then objects are cached for the time to live or 
 TTL and that value is always in seconds and then you can clear cached objects by invalidating them but 
 you will be charge. 
 So do remember that snowball Seriously you just need to understand what snowball is. 
 So basically it's a big desk that you can use to move your data in and out of the obvious cloud and 
 snowball can be imported into S3 so you can import data into S3. 
 You can also use snowball to move large amounts of data out of S3 moving on to storage gateway. 
 Now I did this exam just a couple of days ago and storage Gateway wasn't there. 
 That being said it does come up actually in the solutions architect professional exam. 
 So it is just important to understand storage gateway. 
 And it may well still come up in the associates. 
 It always used to did for three years so I don't want to risk not teaching it. 
 So we have the different types of storage Gateway we've got file Gateway this is used for flat files 
 that are stored directly on S3 and that's the NFL. 
 We then have volume gateway that's I scuzzy and we have two different types of volume gateways we've 
 got our stored volumes and this means that your entire data set is stored on site so it's literally 
 a 100 percent copy of your data being stored on site and then it's backed up to S3 then also have cased 
 volumes and this is where the entire data set is stored on S3 and only the most frequently accessed 
 data is cased on site. 
 And if you get those two confused just look for the word case. 
 That's all you need to see or cache however you want to pronounce it whether you're Australian or American. 
 We also then have Gateway virtual tape library and this is used for backups and works with really popular 
 backup applications like net. 
 Back up back up exact VM. 
 Cetera. 
 And it's a great way of getting rid of your physical tapes. 
 And then finally I would read the S3 F.A. Q before going into your exam because S3 is going to come 
 up an awful lot in the solutions architect associate exam. 
 So that is it for this section the course goes you've done really really well we're going to go and 
 look at E2 which is Amazon's virtual machine service in the next section we're going to learn an awful 
 lot we're gonna start using the command line we're gonna start provisioning web servers and it is an 
 awful lot of fun. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next section of the course. 
 Thank you.