 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers. 
 And welcome to this lecture. 
 So it's our very first lab where it's finally going to start getting our hands dirty with a W S. 
 And in this lecture we're going to learn all about identity access management. 
 As mentioned in the last lecture this is one of the most important AWOL services because this service 
 gives you access to control permissions to all the other services and to also create users groups and 
 roles. 
 So let's go ahead and get started. 
 OK so here I am in the aid of yes consul. 
 And if you look up here you'll be able to see or regions I know I did cover this off in the last section 
 of the course. 
 I would always suggest using ust e as your main region northern Virginia. 
 Like I said before the reason for that is this is where all the new products and services are launched 
 first. 
 So this is always the most up to date region. 
 This is also the region that goes down in the most. 
 So if we want to find identity access management just click up on services. 
 This will open up all the different services that are available for Amazon Web Services. 
 I know it can be a bit overwhelming. 
 Like I said in the Section 2 Don't panic. 
 No one person knows all of these services inside out and only a small fraction of these services make 
 up the certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 Now we're looking for security. 
 You can see it here it's got the little shield. 
 So security identity and compliance and what we're going to go ahead and do is click on identity access 
 management and that will take us to this splash screen and you'll be able to see in here that this is 
 the landing page. 
 Now you've got to sign in link. 
 This is the link that you can send to your users. 
 It's simply your account number. 
 Then don't sign any dot AWB or Amazon.com forward slash console. 
 You can actually go in here and customize it. 
 You could do an account alias of a cloud guru. 
 If someone has already taken it however you're going to you know it's a universal namespace. 
 You won't be able to take it. 
 It's gonna say a cargo 2019. 
 God knows if this will actually be available. 
 Someone has stolen it from me. 
 Maybe I'll take 20 20. 
 So 2020. 
 Create Oh my God I'm going to do 2020 Ryan something like that no one would have taken that. 
 So there we go. 
 So this has now changed that U.R.L. and this is actually a DNS change. 
 So this is a publicly accessible U.R.L. that people can go into to sign into this account. 
 Now the very first thing we're going to do is activate multi factor authentication or MFA on our route 
 account. 
 You might be thinking what is a route account or a route account is just the username is the email address 
 that you first signed up with with AWOL with and when you log in using the route account you have what 
 I would call God mode you're able to do anything inside of AWOL us. 
 Now for that reason you pretty much don't want anyone to log in using the route account you want to 
 create you know a whole bunch of users and a whole bunch of different groups and put those users into 
 groups. 
 You also want to secure this route account because it does have god mode access on it. 
 So what you want to do is enable multi factor authentication so someone steals your username and password. 
 They will not be able to log in without multi factor authentication. 
 So to enable it we just click in here and go to manage MFA and it says you are now accessing the security 
 credential page for YOUR NWS account. 
 This is account credentials provides unlimited access to UAW US resources. 
 So just go ahead and continue. 
 And in here we can see the MFA multi factor authentication and all you need to do is click on activate 
 M F A and in here you'll get the three different types you've got virtual MFA you've got a YouTube for 
 security key and you've got other hardware MFA device. 
 I would just use the virtual MFA and you can download the Google Authenticator app and you can do that 
 on the Google Play store or on the Apple App Store so just type in Google Authenticator. 
 Once you've downloaded that go ahead and continue and I'm going to go ahead and hit click here show 
 QR code. 
 Now what I would do before you open that app is I take a photo of this QR code and store it somewhere 
 safe. 
 That means that if you lose your multi factor authentication device or if you lose your phone for example. 
 So long as you have access to this QR code you can always re enable MFA and you don't have to worry 
 about contacting AWB as a support team. 
 OK. 
 So once you've installed Google Authenticator on your phone you'll see a screen that looks similar to 
 this you might not have any authentication codes in there. 
 All you need to do in order to add one is to hit this little plus symbol and then go ahead and hit scan 
 bar code. 
 And there you go you can see this is my lovely view from our London office. 
 There's a whole bunch of Star Wars stamps and all I need to do is then scroll this down and have a look 
 at the QR code and that has now added the new MFA to the bottom of my iPhone screen which you can see 
 here and then all I need to do is go ahead and end to end my MFA codes in here sooner. 
 Go ahead and do that. 
 Now it's 5 3 7 6 2 4. 
 And then we're just gonna wait for this MFA thing to change and my MFA codes about to change. 
 Which is why it's gone red. 
 And now I'm going to type in the new one which is 7 7 0 0 and then 6 2 6 and then all you need to do 
 is go ahead and hit a sign MFA and you can see it now says you have successfully assigned virtual MFA 
 the virtual MFA will be required during signing. 
 So go ahead and hit close and then you'll come back to this landing page. 
 Notice in here you can change your password. 
 This is to change your password for the root account. 
 In fact everything here is for your route accounts you probably want to come out of it just go ahead 
 and click on dashboards and you can now see that we've got a new green tech. 
 We've activated MFA on our route account before we go in and get more green techs. 
 I just wanted to point out here that the region is global so whenever you're doing anything inside. 
 Identity access management such as creating users or groups. 
 It's on a global basis. 
 They're not locked down to particular regions you're not creating a user in Northern Virginia and then 
 having to create the same user in Australia. 
 So just bear that in mind as well. 
 So next thing we want to do is go in and create an individual I am user so let's click on that and go 
 ahead and manage our users to go ahead and add my user and my username is just going to be my name sir 
 Ryan Kronenberg is what I'm going to put in here and then I'm gonna go ahead and select my AWP as access 
 type. 
 Now what we're using right now is called The Management consoles the AWOL management console. 
 You can also enable programmatic access so we can enable both just for this user. 
 Now we're going to use programmatic access in the easy to section of the course easy to as just virtual 
 machines. 
 So that is coming up but we won't cover it off in this section but I do just want to show you what happens 
 when you enable programmatic access. 
 You're going to be creating an access key I.D. and secret access key and you'll use these to interact 
 with the aid of U.S. console. 
 In here we've got our password. 
 I'm just gonna do an order auto generated password and in here it says require a password reset the 
 user must create a new password at next sign and so not only does it auto generate a password for that 
 user it's also going to make sure that they change it when they first sign in. 
 Next we're gonna go ahead and add our permissions we haven't created a group yet. 
 So it's going to say add user to a group. 
 Let's go ahead and create a group. 
 And this group I'm going to call in my group name I'm gonna call it developers so developers and my 
 developers really need administrator access to eight of us. 
 And this is where we add our policies and if it's got this little adobe US logo here it means it's an 
 adult US managed policy. 
 So we want to add administrator access. 
 Now you can add a but based on different job roles. 
 So here you can see the type of job function. 
 And then you've got AWOL manage trust rolling to the bottom I'm guarantee you it's going to take forever. 
 That is that how mean that is how many policies there are. 
 So we're going to do administrator access but it fails to type in something like billing. 
 You can see a job function in Zim billing in here or if you've got your database administrator database 
 administrator as a job function. 
 So there is a number different job functions to save you time if you want to know a list of all the 
 job functions just type into Google. 
 I am job functions and it will give you the different types. 
 So let's go ahead and create this group. 
 We're creating the developers group and we're giving them full administrator access that has now created 
 our group and now we're going to add this user to our group and we go ahead and hit next and we're gonna 
 go ahead and create our user that has now added Our user in here. 
 You'll see that we've got our access key I.D. and our secret access key. 
 This is for our programmatic access to adult yes. 
 You're only ever going to see this one time so you can just click here and download a CSP file. 
 So you see that's downloaded down there store that for later we will go through and probably create 
 an entirely new user when we get to that section of the course and we can also email login instructions 
 and if you click on that link it's going to open up your mail client and email them log in instructions 
 as well. 
 And if you want to see a user's password just click on the show button which is off to the left of the 
 send email link. 
 So let's go ahead and hit close. 
 We now have our user in here. 
 So we've got Ryan dot Kronenberg. 
 He's a member of the developers group and nothing else has been added. 
 We go back to our dashboard we can see that we've created an individual am user and we've also used 
 groups to assign permissions. 
 I just wanted to quickly show you a bit more into policies. 
 So we added this administrator access policy to the group when we were creating the group. 
 If you want to see more about the policy just click on this little down arrow in here. 
 This is javascript notation or Jason which we're talking about before. 
 And it basically is a whole bunch of key value pairs. 
 So this is their version of the policy. 
 This is the statement. 
 We've got our square brackets and in here we've got our curly brackets. 
 And we again we've got more key value pairs. 
 So these key value pairs are under the statement. 
 So this is what we call nesting inside Jason. 
 So we've got effect allow the action is a star. 
 So a wildcard. 
 So we're saying allow and the action we're allowing anything and on which resource we're allowing anything. 
 So this is the most powerful administrate or this is the most powerful policy that you can have in eight 
 of us. 
 You're saying allow you to do anything with any resource within eight years. 
 So this is administrator access or some like to call it god mode. 
 So let's go back to dashboards. 
 We've created an I am user we've created a group and then the last thing we want to do is just apply 
 an identity access management password policy. 
 We go ahead and click on manage password policy and here we can now say that we want our minimum path 
 of passwords length to be like 12 characters not one uppercase letter. 
 We want one lowercase letter we want at least one number one alphanumeric character et cetera. 
 And here we can have password expiration we can prevent our password reuse and we can have the password 
 expiration requires an administrator reset so you can change in here all the different password policies. 
 I'm going to go ahead and just hit apply play and if we go and click on our dashboard we now have five 
 green tech so we've achieved to five out of five. 
 Now in case you're wondering where is my actual password that I need to send to my user if you open 
 up that CSP file you'll be able to see and hear Here's the password that's been auto generated here's 
 my access key. 
 I want you to think of this as just like a user name that we're going to use to programmatically access 
 the adobe us console and here's our secret access key. 
 Again this is just like a password that we're going to use to programmatically access the adobe us you 
 know ecosystem and then we've got our console log in link. 
 So you need to do is send your user. 
 This console log in link their user name and their password. 
 If for some reason you lose that information or you didn't save it click on users and then go ahead 
 and click on the user in here and then you can actually just click on their name and in here you'll 
 be able to go in and change their security credentials by clicking up here. 
 So we've got our security credentials in here. 
 Our console password we can go ahead and hit manage and we can actually just set it so we can create 
 our own custom on if we wanted we can order generate a new one and we can even enable or disable the 
 console. 
 And likewise with our access keys if you've lost your access keys because I have shown you my access 
 key I.D. and secret access key straight away what I'm going to do is might make an active because anyone 
 who basically has access to access key idea and Secret Access Key could use your AWB account to make 
 sure you never share that now with your access key idea and secret access key you can never use this 
 to log into the console you can only use the console password and again if this access key I.D. and 
 Secret Access Key doesn't make a lot of sense right now it will make a lot of sense. 
 Later on in the course when we actually go ahead and start using it. 
 So I'm just gonna make it an active in fact I'm probably just gonna go in and delete it for now and 
 we'll go ahead and provision it later. 
 The very last thing I want to show you is roles roles are away for one AWOL service to go ahead and 
 use another AWOL service so we're gonna use this in the easy to section of the course where we're going 
 to allow our little virtual machine to talk to S3. 
 Let's go ahead and just create a roll. 
 So we're gonna hit create roll in here we're gonna say choose the service that will use this roll. 
 So I would like to. 
 It's gonna be easy too because that's what we're going to use in the very next sexual in two sections 
 on. 
 So I'm gonna go ahead and hit next. 
 And then in here all I want to do is type in S3 and because we want S3 full access we're going to use 
 an ATV OS manage policy again. 
 It's got the little icon there which means it's some eight of us manage policy. 
 You can create your own policies which are customer managed. 
 We're not gonna do that in this course. 
 It's beyond the scope of this course but it is definitely possible. 
 Let's go ahead and hit next review and the roll name. 
 Just give it a unique name. 
 I'm going to call it S3 underscore admin underscore and then access. 
 And now we're gonna go ahead and create the roll. 
 So that roll has now been created. 
 You can see it in here. 
 And we're going to use it not in the next section but the section after that. 
 Okay. 
 So what have we learned so far. 
 Well we've learnt that I am is universal it does not apply to regions at this time. 
 So when you create a user you're creating that user globally same when you create a role or when you 
 create a group. 
 We let the root account is simply the account created when you first set up your NWS account. 
 It has complete administrator access and it's always using your email address. 
 So that's sometimes called the root account email address and the password that you configured. 
 We also learned that new users have new permissions when first created. 
 We had to give our user Ryan Kronenberg permissions and to do that we created a administrator access 
 policy. 
 We assigned that to the developers group. 
 We also learned that new users are assigned an access key I.D. and secret access key. 
 When I first created they use this to programmatically access the AWB US ecosystem and again this is 
 completely optional you can just say okay I really want you know console access or I want programmatic 
 access so those are the two different types of access you can have one you can have the other or you 
 can have both of them at the same time so that's console access and programmatic access. 
 We also learnt that the user access key ideas and secret access key are not the same as the passwords 
 you can't use the access key idea and secret access key to log into the console. 
 You can only use it for programmatic access and I'll show you what the programmatic access means and 
 how it works. 
 Later on in the course in the AC 2 section of the course I remember that you only get to view the user's 
 password their access key I.D. and secret access key. 
 Once if you lose them you're going to have to regenerate them to make sure you save that CSP file in 
 a secure location always set up multi factor authentication on your route account. 
 Remember your route account has god mode so you know if someone hacks your email and they can do a password 
 research you're gonna be screwed. 
 So you always want multi factor authentication. 
 The great thing is setting up multi factor authentication on AWOL is super simple. 
 All you need is a smartphone and you just need to download the Google Authenticator app and then you 
 can set up multi factor authentication which we saw right at the start of this lab and then you can 
 create and customize your own password rotation policies. 
 So we went in and we made sure our passwords had twelve characters they had a uppercase letter a lowercase 
 letter number and then a special character. 
 So that is what we've learned so far in this lab. 
 In the next lab what we're gonna do is we're gonna go ahead and create a billing alarm. 
 This will tell us if our NWS account is gonna go over a certain threshold and give us an alert. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.