 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at how to create a billing 
 alarm. 
 Now if most of the lectures in this course will be using AWB as free tier. 
 However there are some lectures where you will not be using free to or we might exceed the limits of 
 free tier. 
 And in order to just alert us when we go over the amount what we're going to do is go ahead and set 
 up a billing alarm so billing alarm is basically an amount that you set let's say it's going to be ten 
 dollars and it will send you an alarm as soon as your AWB spill goes over that for the month. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the AWB console. 
 Okay so here I am in the AWB console. 
 I want you to just make sure that your region is set to northern Virginia to make sure it's in Northern 
 Virginia. 
 You can see all the different regions around the world here and then what we're going to do is we're 
 going to go over to a service called Cloud watch. 
 Now cloud watch is exactly what it sounds like. 
 It's a way of monitoring your cloud or watching your cloud and you can find cloud watch here under management 
 and governance. 
 We're going to is the second one down. 
 And go ahead and click on cloud watch and that will launch the cloud watch console. 
 And then what we want to do is when it go ahead and click on billing and in here we're going to create 
 a billing alarm. 
 So we need to do is hit create alarm. 
 Now if you don't see this screen it means that you've clicked the wrong create alarm button. 
 So there's actually two if you click this one up here it's going to create a generic alarm. 
 Go just hit cancel and then click the one down here create alarm and then you should see this screen 
 if you still don't see this screen you can actually go back and you can select the metric and then you 
 just click into billing and you go total estimated charges and then click on U.S. dollars and hit select 
 metric and then you'll get this exact same screen so hopefully everyone is at this point I know it can 
 seem a little bit confusing. 
 And so what we're going to do is you can see here we've got our currency in US dollars. 
 The period is going to be every six hours it's going to be checking our account to make sure we haven't 
 gone over that. 
 We've got two different threshold types here we've got static an anomaly detection anomaly is basically 
 for detecting anomalies. 
 We just want static and we're just going to say whenever estimated charges is greater then and then 
 you enter in here the number 10 US dollars then it's going to do an alarm. 
 There's some additional configuration options in here such as the number of data points that you want 
 and how to treat missing data but don't worry about that. 
 Just go ahead and hit next. 
 And then what we need to do is create an S and ask topic and SNF stands for simple notification service 
 and we're going to cover that off a bit later on in the course. 
 And what we want to do is just create a new topic. 
 And so the topic in here we'll just call it billing alarm. 
 And in here we enter in our email address. 
 Oh and it has to be one word. 
 And so in here enter in your email address and make sure you enter a legitimate email address because 
 you will have to confirm this. 
 So I've entered in my email address I have blurted out to everyone e-mailing me. 
 And go ahead and hit create topic that would then create a topic and you should get an email straight 
 away basically telling you to subscribe to that topic go into your email click on the link and then 
 you will be subscribed to that topic. 
 Once you've done that. 
 Just go ahead and head next in here we're going to enter our alarm name so again we're just gonna call 
 it billing alarm and my alarm description. 
 Send me an email. 
 If my bell goes over ten dollars. 
 So there we go. 
 Go ahead and hit next and then we could. 
 This is a preview of it all. 
 All you need to do is scroll down to the very bottom and then go ahead and hit create alarm and so you 
 can see here the action says pending confirmation. 
 That means you need to go into your email and subscribe to that topics. 
 And when you have clicked on that link in your email you'll see something very similar to this just 
 saying your subscription is confirmed. 
 Then if you go back to the console and you just hit the refresh button you'll see that the actions are 
 in there at the moment there's insufficient data. 
 That's because we said hey check my account every six hours. 
 So depending on your own account it may take a little bit of time for this to turn into okay. 
 But just wait and be patient and that's it. 
 You will now get an alarm every time your bill goes over ten dollars. 
 And so where this comes up in the exam is basically it's asking you how can you get automatic notifications 
 if your account goes over like a thousand dollars or whatever. 
 Well the answer is you go into cloud watch and you create a billing alarm billing alarm users an S and 
 S topic we will cover that off later off in the course. 
 But essentially an S and S topic is just basically a way of e-mailing you whenever your alarm goes over 
 the ten dollar threshold. 
 So that's where it will come up in the exam. 
 And oh you can see it just went into an okay status as well. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys. 
 If you have any questions please let me know if not feel free to move on to the next lecture. 
 Thank you.