 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay hello bloggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're gonna go ahead and create our 
 first s three bucket. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the NWS console. 
 Okay so here I am in the adobe console in the first thing I want you to note is my regions are going 
 forward throughout the rest of this course I would recommend that you change your region to Northern 
 Virginia. 
 The reason for that is Northern Virginia is where NWS roll out all their new products first. 
 If you select a region that's relatively new such as Stockholm you might not have all the products and 
 services that are available to you. 
 So what we want to do is we want to find S3 sir S3 is a storage service and it is under storage. 
 So we're gonna click on storage in here and that will open up our S3. 
 Basically our console. 
 Now you can see up here that this has already changed to global. 
 So when you create a bucket you do choose which region it is but when you go and view or your buckets 
 you get a global views that's all that is. 
 So let's go ahead and create a bucket. 
 Now if you remember from the last lecture I said bucket names must be unique. 
 So if we type in test bucket for example and hit create it's going to say that that bucket name already 
 exists. 
 So you must have a unique name. 
 Now someone has taken a cloud guru from me unfortunately but I'm going to do a cloud guru. 
 Two thousand and nineteen. 
 So try that. 
 And in here we can choose our region. 
 So I'm going to do mine in UST e 1 so Northern Virginia and I don't have any existing buckets so I'm 
 not going to copy any settings. 
 Let's go ahead and hit next in here. 
 Okay. 
 We can see that the bucket name already exists. 
 I'm going to put my name after that. 
 So 2019. 
 Ryan. 
 Oh my God. 
 I swear this isn't my bucket somebody has just taken the names so I'm going to do Ryan Kronenberg and 
 then I'm going to put pi in there three point 1 4 1 5 et cetera et cetera. 
 So there we go. 
 Now I've got a unique bucket name. 
 So in here we've got all our different properties. 
 I'm going to show you how to change this. 
 After we create a bucket so we could turn on versioning we could turn on server access logging and this 
 basically logs requests for your access to your bucket get start doing tags you do object level tagging 
 we could automatically enable encryption you've got advance options in here so we can permanently allow 
 objects in this bucket to be locked. 
 I'm not going to do any of this I'm just gonna go ahead and hit next in here. 
 This is really important. 
 This is quite a new screen. 
 But basically if you want to make any of your objects public so if you want to be able to view them 
 you have to make sure all these boxes are on text. 
 Now for now we're just going to leave them all as text and I'll show you how we can resolve that a little 
 bit later. 
 So let's go ahead and hit next and this will just review all our settings. 
 Let's go ahead and hit create bucket. 
 So there we go. 
 I've created my very first bucket so let's go ahead and click in here. 
 So this is a bucket. 
 This is where we can upload our files. 
 Why don't we go ahead and do that first. 
 So let's click upload and let's go and add some files. 
 So I've got two files in here. 
 I've got a picture of me and faye at replay. 
 Faye is our instructor for the developer associate and sits ops administrator associate. 
 And I work with her in the London office. 
 I've also got a photo of me and my brother meeting Jeff Barr. 
 Let's go ahead and hit upload. 
 Now you can see here. 
 We're going to get a success and this is basically sent back a hasty GDP 200 code to our browser saying 
 that these objects have been uploaded successfully. 
 So if we click on the first object we'll be able to see a whole bunch of different information so it 
 can see and hear the key. 
 And so the key is its name. 
 So it's called Fay Ryan replay dot JP. 
 We can see the size we can see if it's got an expiration date. 
 We can see a whole bunch of different objects a whole bunch of different data. 
 And in here you've got the object U.R.L.. 
 So if we clicked on this and tried to access this object it says access denied access denied. 
 Now the reason this object is access is denied us because we haven't made this object public. 
 So it's really important to understand that whenever you put stuff into S3 it takes quite a bit of work 
 to make those things public. 
 I'm not sure how we can make it public in a second. 
 So I've just gone back if I click back on my bucket up here and if I click on here I can go and do some 
 actions to this object so I can download I can open it I can change the storage class I can go ahead 
 and make it public. 
 Let's go ahead and try and make this object public. 
 So in clicked on make public and you can see down here it says an error 100 percent failed. 
 Now if you remember when we created our bucket we had all those checkboxes. 
 So if we go back to S3 and we click in here we can go and edit our public access settings. 
 And when you go and edit it by default these are now unchecked. 
 So if you go ahead and hit save it's going to ask you to confirm. 
 So I'm going to go in and type confer and there you go. 
 You can see now that jacks can now be public so the access level has been changed. 
 So let's go back into our bucket by clicking in here. 
 So the first thing I want to do is I want to make me and phase this object public so gonna be able to 
 view it. 
 So I'm gonna go to actions and I'm gonna go down to make public and go ahead and click on make public. 
 You can see that has now been successful. 
 If I click on the object and click on the link it should load a picture of me and Faye and then we are 
 reinvent for 2018. 
 This is the big party at the end of reinvents called Replay and you can see we've got these shirts on 
 that light up so they'll battery powered and basically lit up our logo was pretty pretty cool. 
 So we're just gonna go back and I'm gonna go over to my bucket again. 
 I'm going to do the same with the photo of me and Jeff so I'm just gonna go ahead and make public and 
 this is how you go ahead and make objects public on an individual basis. 
 So I click on here. 
 We should be able to see there's me and my brother with Jeff bar and this was at reinvent in 2017. 
 So let's go back to our bucket and look what else we can do on an object level basis so we can go and 
 click on here and we can go to the properties and we can change things like the storage class so I could 
 say Okay I want this to use intelligent tearing. 
 We can do this on an object level as well as a bucket level so I'm gonna do this on an object level 
 going to turn on intelligent tearing. 
 And so that is just done it for this object click on here you can see storage class intelligent tearing 
 click on the one with Jeff is just standard. 
 So so far we're editing everything out an object level. 
 If we wanted to change the properties at a bucket level we would click up here. 
 So these are the properties permissions and management. 
 And I'm not going to go through every single one of these. 
 We will cover off versioning in this course. 
 We will cover off static web site hosting and we will cover off some parts of encryption that's gonna 
 be the next lecture as well as transfer acceleration. 
 That's what you need to know. 
 Those three are the main ones that you need to know in order to pass your certified Solutions Architect 
 associate exam if you want to learn all about S3. 
 We do have a S3 deep dive course on the a cloud guru platform. 
 In here we control the permissions for our buckets. 
 So this allows us to edit the public settings. 
 We then can also do access control this access control list can go all the way down to an object an 
 individual object so you could block one spreadsheet but allow you know other spreadsheets to be read 
 bucket policies work on an entire bucket level. 
 So you could put a bucket policy in to make all objects in the bucket public and we will do that when 
 we create a service website. 
 At the very last section likewise we look at cause in the very last section of the course when we create 
 our service website and in here we've got our management. 
 This is where we set up lifecycle rules where we set up replications across region replication. 
 We are going to cover off both of these in the this section of the course. 
 So what have we learned about S3. 
 Let's summarize. 
 So onto my exam tips what have we learned. 
 We did cover off a lot of these in the last lecture but I'm just going to remind you sir buckets are 
 a universal namespace you can't share the same name when you upload an object to S3 your browser is 
 going to get a heap TTP 200 code there's a bunch of different storage classes you need to remember these 
 going into your exams have got S3 S3 infrequently accessed S3 infrequently access one zone and we then 
 have collation we have different flavors of closure depending on our retrieval time and then finally 
 we learnt that you can control access to your buckets either using a bucket ACL or using bucket policies 
 when looked at that briefly we will use bucket policies when we go to the service section of the course 
 where we create a service website so we will look at that later on in this course. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys if you have any questions please let me know if not feel free to 
 move on to the next lecture which is about encryption.