 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello. 
 And welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to learn about S3 security as well as encryption. 
 So we learned in the last lecture that by default all buckets when we create them are private and that 
 was those four little checkboxes and you can set up access control to your buckets using bucket policies 
 and access control lists. 
 Now bucket policies work at a bucket level whereas access control lists go all the way down to individual 
 objects and S3 Buckets can be configured to create access logs which logs all the requests made to your 
 S3 bucket. 
 So if someone tries to access an object that is going to be logged and this can be sent to another bucket 
 or even another bucket in another account. 
 So if you want to log who's accessing your objects in your S3 bucket you can definitely do that and 
 you can store those logs in an S3 bucket in your primary AWOL U.S. account or you can actually set it 
 up in a different AWOL account. 
 And so this is really really important to understand the two different types of encryption because you 
 will be tested on this in the exam. 
 So there's encryption in transit now you whenever you go and visit a website if you're going to hate 
 TTP s it means that the traffic is going to be encrypted in transit. 
 So basically between your computer and the server that traffic is encrypted no one who is eavesdropping 
 on that will be able to break it and understand what you're looking at. 
 That's why we use GDP s so encryption in transit is always achieved by SSL or TALF as it's also referred 
 to. 
 So that's whenever you have browsing using HDTV yes that is encryption at transit encryption at rest 
 is where we encrypt the data that's being stored. 
 So let's say we have a word documents being stored on a hard disk drive. 
 If there is no encryption at risk and somebody steals that hard disk drive they will be able to access 
 that Word document. 
 So I'm talking about encryption at rest in terms of the way it works with S3. 
 There's two different ways that we can do this we can do it on the server side or we can do it on the 
 client side the service side is where Amazon help you encrypt the object and on the client's side it's 
 where you encrypt the object and then upload it to S3. 
 So let's look at it on the service side and there's three different types. 
 There's s three managed keys. 
 This is where Amazon manages the keys for you automatically. 
 You don't need to worry about the keys at all. 
 When we talk about keys a key is just a way of encrypting the object and then decrypting it. 
 So it's just like you would use a key with a lock. 
 So this is where Amazon manage all the keys. 
 So that's S3 managed keys it's sometimes referred to as SSD S3 which is service side encryption S3. 
 We then have Adobe as key management service. 
 This is where you and Amazon manage the keys together. 
 And this is called managed keys server side encryption with k m s and then we have server side encryption 
 with customer provided keys. 
 This is where you actually give Amazon your own keys that you manage and you can encrypt your S3 objects 
 doing that as well. 
 And then like I said you can actually encrypt the object yourself on the client sites you might do this 
 on your your Mac or your P.C. or whatever and then you upload that object to S3. 
 So there's four ways of really doing encryption. 
 There's server side encryption. 
 So we've got SS A S3 SSD came as an SS a customer managed keys or customer provided keys and then we 
 also have encryption using client side encryption where you basically encrypt the object and then upload 
 it to S3. 
 So let's go ahead and have a look at how we can do this in the database console. 
 I mean the obvious console if we want to go to S3 it's always under storage so just go ahead and click 
 in there and we've got the bucket that we created in the last lecture. 
 We click in the bucket. 
 We can go and click on our individual objects and we can go and change the encryption by clicking in 
 here. 
 And here you can see we've got a 256. 
 Or we can start using the AWOL scale mass service and we can use our own custom keys or we can use the 
 adobe US provided keys. 
 So those are the three different types now. 
 Camus is really beyond the scope of this course. 
 We do cover it in an awful lot of detail in the certified security specialty course. 
 I highly recommend getting the certified security specialty certificate who doesn't want to be secure 
 in the W.S. cloud. 
 It is really really valuable. 
 So maybe check that out once you've passed your solutions architect associate exam so click on a P.S. 
 256 and I'm gonna go ahead and hit save and I'm gonna go ahead and hit change and that is it. 
 It is simple it is that easy you can see in here it's been a hundred percent success. 
 Again if I uncheck this and check on it again you'll be able to see that it is now encrypted. 
 So in the unlikely event that somebody was to run into or break into AWB says data center and somehow 
 get a hard disk drive my file was on that drive they would not be able to decrypt this file. 
 They can only decrypt it by using the key. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys. 
 If you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move onto the next lecture. 
 Thank you.