 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello club girls and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at versioning. 
 So before we get started let's just see what we can do with versioning. 
 So using versioning with S3. 
 Basically this is going to store all versions of an object and including all rights even if you delete 
 the object and we'll see that when we log into the console. 
 So versioning is a great backup tool and once versioning is enabled on a bucket it cannot be disabled 
 it can only be suspended so you can only suspend it. 
 You can't go in and disable versioning. 
 You have to delete the bucket and and create a new one to to completely turn it off. 
 It also integrates with the lifecycle rules. 
 Now we're going to cover that in the next lecture as well so we'll look at how we can use lifecycle 
 rules and versioning to move things to Glacier and versioning also comes with MFA delete capability 
 and this basically uses multi factor authentication which can be used to provide an additional layer 
 of security to stop people from going in and accidentally deleting objects sort of permanently delete 
 something you would need multi factor authentication to do that. 
 So this is a lab let's log into the adobe console and have a look at versioning. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the obvious console and if I click on services and I can see S3 under storage. 
 Let's go ahead and click on that. 
 I'm going to create a new bucket for this lecture. 
 I'm going to call it a cloud guru versioning 2019 RJ K which has my initials hopefully that will be 
 available. 
 And I'm just gonna go ahead and hit create immediately. 
 Okay. 
 There we go so it's created my bucket. 
 Notice the different levels of access. 
 So by default our bucket and objects are not public. 
 We go ahead and create a bucket the bucket and the objects within them are not public. 
 So we do want to change that because we're gonna need to look at all the different versions of our files. 
 So I want to just click in here and go edit public access settings make sure all these boxes are unchecked. 
 Go ahead and type the word confirm. 
 And go ahead and hit confirm. 
 And that will then change your access levels so objects can now be public. 
 So let's go into this bucket and the very first thing we're going to do is turn on versioning. 
 So if we go over to properties you'll see versioning here here's the very first you know box inside 
 properties. 
 And let's go ahead and click on here and we can go and hit enable versioning and we'll go ahead and 
 hit save. 
 Now notice that we can only enable or suspend. 
 We can't turn it off. 
 So we now have versioning enabled on this bucket. 
 Now we don't have anything in this bucket so let's go ahead and upload a file to this bucket. 
 I'm going to go ahead and hit upload and I'm going to add this file and it's just us is Halo cloud gurus 
 dot tech's T. 
 And I'm gonna go ahead and hit upload. 
 So now that that has uploaded let's make it public and have a look at it. 
 So we'll just click on the object and go make public and make public and then we can uncheck and then 
 check again to get the link and you can click on the link in here and there you go it says hello cloud 
 gurus this is version 1. 
 So it's a very very simple t x t file. 
 So we're going to do is just go back and I'm going to go back to my bucket and we're going to upload 
 a new version of this file some quickly just going to change this file. 
 So let's change this file to say this is version to this is a better version something like that. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and hit save and I'm gonna save anyway and now I'm going to go ahead and upload this 
 to S3 and back in the console. 
 I'm gonna go and hit upload and we're gonna add this file and let's add it again and hit upload. 
 So that has now up loaded the file. 
 Now the first thing I want to ask you is what do you think has happened to the permissions on this file. 
 Do you think this file is still public. 
 Or do you think it is it's changed the permissions or click in now and we click on the actual link you 
 can see that the file is now is access denied so it has by uploading the new file it has changed the 
 permissions on that file you can't access it so you need to just go back and basically go in and enable 
 it so that it is public. 
 So just go here go to actions make public and make public and there we go. 
 And then I'm going to click on the link again and click on the link again. 
 And here we go we can see that it says hello cloud gurus this is version 2 This is a better version. 
 So if I go back you want to be able to see the versions and you'll notice that once we turn versioning 
 on we've got this version's sort of UI here that appears right now it's not showing us the version. 
 So if we click on Show we can now see our different versions. 
 So we've got our version one here and you can see the latest version here. 
 And notice that they've got different version I.D. and also note the different sizes. 
 So actually the size of our S3 bucket now is the sum of these two different versions. 
 So that's something to bear in mind from an architectural point of view. 
 If you have versioning turned on in a bucket and you're making constant changes to large files the size 
 of your bucket is going to start going up exponentially so do bear that in mind when you're architecting 
 maybe you don't need versioning turned on or maybe you need to enable a lifecycle policy to retire old 
 versions quickly. 
 We're going to look at lifecycle policies in the very next lecture so let's go ahead and have. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and upload a third version so we're gonna have three versions some quickly just going 
 to make a change to that text file says in here. 
 Hello cloud goers this is version 2 let's change this to version 3 and this is the best version so best 
 version and then I might just add some random stuff in here just to make it even bigger so save that 
 now and what I'm going to do is go back over to S3 and let's go ahead and hit upload and hit add files 
 and we're going to upload this file and hit upload again. 
 And now you will be able to see that this is now the latest version. 
 It's 87 bytes in size. 
 That was the previous version. 
 That was the previous version. 
 Again let's actually just test that we can access it. 
 So if we click in here and then click on the link you see we're going to get an access denied. 
 So we do need to go and make that public again. 
 So we'll click on here and go actions make public and go ahead and hit make public. 
 One thing to note if we go back to this version the original version that we had and we click on the 
 link we can see that it's version 1 and that it is still public. 
 So when we create when we're uploading the newest version it's automatically going to be private. 
 But the older versions permissions don't change as well. 
 So let's click in here we can see all three different versions. 
 Now if we wanted to get rid of a version or get rid of a file let's actually just go to hide here. 
 So it turned versioning off heard a click in here and go actions delete what's gonna happen is let's 
 hit delete. 
 So the bucket appears empty. 
 But it's not actually empty if we go to show versions and what we've actually done is we've just placed 
 a delete marker over and had delete markers simply a new version. 
 So we still have our three different versions in here even though that we've deleted that file and the 
 way we would restore this file is if we go in and delete the delete marker. 
 So let's go in here and hit delete and hit delete. 
 And that has now restored it to the latest version to version 3. 
 Likewise if we go in here and go actions delete we can actually go in and delete this individual version 
 so we've actually deleted that version now. 
 We haven't placed a delete marker over it because where we've clicked on the show versions and now this 
 is the latest version version 2. 
 Now if we click on that we should be able to see version 2. 
 So let's go to my exam tips. 
 So what are my exam tips. 
 Well just remember that versioning stalls or versions of an object including any rights. 
 And even if you delete an object it's going to place a delete marker over that object but the versions 
 that existed before it will still exist. 
 It's a fantastic backup tool and once enabled versioning cannot be disabled it can only be suspended. 
 It integrates with lifecycle rules which are going to look at in the very next lecture. 
 And this is the most important for the exam. 
 Just remember that versioning has multi factor authentication delete capability. 
 And this basically uses multi factor authentication in order to delete files if someone wants to delete 
 a file. 
 They'll have to provide MFA in order to do it and this can be used to provide an additional layer of 
 security it's critical to remember that going into your exam. 
 So now that we know about versioning let's go ahead and have a look at lifecycle rules. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.