 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at the lifecycle management 
 with S3. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the adobe us console. 
 Okay so I'm logged into Dawe console. 
 If you just go to S3 you'll be able to see the buckets that we created in the last couple of lectures. 
 I'm going to go into my versioning bucket that has my objects in it and I'm just going to go over to 
 management and in here we can see our lifecycle rules so let's go ahead and add a lifecycle rule. 
 And it says here you can use lifecycle rules to manage your objects. 
 And essentially what it does is it's going to automate transitioning your objects to different tiers 
 of storage. 
 And then once you when you specify it it could expire your objects as well. 
 So let's go ahead and hit add a lifecycle rule. 
 I'm going to call it my life cycle rule. 
 Something like that rule and I'm gonna go ahead and before I hit next. 
 You could put in tags or prefixes in here so if a specific object is tagged might be this any object 
 belonging to the finance department for example. 
 This lifecycle rule would then only apply to those tags so bear that in mind as well. 
 So let's go ahead and hit next. 
 In here we've got our storage class transitions so we can have lifecycle rules enabled for just the 
 current version or previous versions or both. 
 Let's go ahead and do both. 
 So we're going to do current version and previous version and then in here we add our transitions. 
 So let's do a transition for our current version. 
 So we're going to say from S3 normal S3 after the object is created we're going to transition to standard 
 infrequently access after 30 days and we're then going to transition it from standard infrequently access 
 to Glacier after 60 days and then in here we've got our previous versions of our objects. 
 So we're going to add in transition and we'll do exactly the same. 
 So 60 and 30 for these two different tiers. 
 So there we go 60 and 30 let's go ahead and hit next. 
 And then we can also configure expirations so we can actually expire our objects and both current versions 
 and previous versions. 
 So we might want to do that 425 days from the date of which the object was created and for previous 
 versions we're going to permanently delete a previous version also after 425 days. 
 You can also click in here to say clean up multiple clean up incomplete multipart uploads. 
 This is when you're uploading a file in multiple parts and you split it up and it will actually upload 
 you know faster if you do do it that way. 
 But sometimes you can have you know files that just didn't get uploaded correctly. 
 And so if you click in here clean up incomplete multi part uploads it will basically go in after seven 
 days from the start of the upload and delete those files. 
 So let's go ahead and hit next. 
 We can review everything in here. 
 So we've got our names my lifecycle rule. 
 The scope is across the whole bucket and these are all our different transitions. 
 We go ahead and hit save. 
 And that has now created our lifecycle rule to the whole bucket and you can see the actions for our 
 current versions as well as for our previous versions. 
 So that's all lifecycle rules are you basically set up a lifecycle rule to move things around from different 
 storage tiers and eventually archive it off to Glacier. 
 You can also use it to permanently delete your objects as well. 
 So what are my exam tips. 
 So my exam tips well just remember what lifecycle management is. 
 So basically allows you to automate moving your objects between the different storage tiers. 
 It also can be used in conjunction with versioning so it does. 
 You don't need versioning turned on but if you do have it turned on you can use it in conjunctions you 
 can do it with your current objects as well as previous versions. 
 And like I just said it can be applied to current versions and previous versions as well. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys if you have any questions please let me know if not feel free to 
 move on to the next lecture.