 
 WEBVTT 
 KAYE Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at Cross region 
 replication. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the adobe us console. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the database console and I just click on S3. 
 I'll be able to see my buckets. 
 Let's just create a new bucket. 
 Just so I can show you so we'll do cross region replication and then just some random numbers. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and hit create now to enable cross region replication we need to go into the bucket 
 we need to go over to management and we need to click on replication and this is where we create our 
 cross region replication rules. 
 So let's go ahead and add a row and you'll see that this bucket doesn't have versioning enabled and 
 cross region replication requires versioning to be enabled on the bucket. 
 So I can just click in here to enable versioning but let's go back to the bucket that we created that 
 we were doing with our versioning lab. 
 So a cloud guru versioning in here going to go over to management and I'm going to set up my replication 
 rules and the reason I'm doing this is I want to show you we've already got an object in the bucket. 
 We've already got two versions of this object. 
 And what we're going to do is we're going to enable cross region replication and what do you think will 
 happen to these two objects. 
 Do you think they'll be replicated automatically. 
 Or do you think we'll need to go in and do some changes. 
 Well let's go over to replication hit at rule and we're going to replicate the entire bucket. 
 So I'm going to go ahead and do that. 
 Of course you can replicate based on prefixes or tags so if you had a tag on an individual object maybe 
 the finance department would only replicate those objects in here. 
 We have no destination buckets. 
 Second click in here and you could do it in buckets in an account or buckets in another AWB account. 
 I'm just gonna go ahead and hit create bucket and in here I'm going to create my DNS bucket. 
 I'm going to call it cross region replication and then a whole bunch of random numbers and then we need 
 to select the region. 
 Now note that it will not let me select the region that I'm currently in has to be in a different region. 
 Now I'm going to replicate this to islands. 
 I'm going to pick the IRS region. 
 So go ahead and hit a before hit next. 
 And just note that you can change the storage class for your replicated objects you might want it to 
 go from S3 to S3 infrequently accessed and you can also change ownership. 
 I'm going to leave everything as default in here we need to select our IAM role. 
 We're going to create a new role which will automatically create a role within identity access management 
 allowing us to do the replication and in here we've got to give our replication role a name. 
 So I'm going to call it S.R. islands something like that island and I'm just going to go ahead and hit 
 next and we can review everything and then all we have to do is go ahead and hit save. 
 Can take a few moments to set that up but once it's set up it is ready to go. 
 So we'll look like this. 
 So can see here our source our destination and our permissions and we can edit the settings in here. 
 We go back over to S three. 
 We'll be able to see our new bucket. 
 So here it is. 
 Note that it has automatically got the same permissions as the other one. 
 And if we go into it we can't see any objects and if we even go and look at the different versions there 
 are no objects in there. 
 So what this means is that when we set up cross region replication essentially it's not going to do. 
 The objects that are already in that bucket. 
 So you would have to go in and upload those manually. 
 Let's go and upload a file so I'm going to upload version 3. 
 I'm going to go ahead and hit open and hit upload and you can see that that's now the latest version 
 if we click on the file we should be able we're going to get the permissions area because we haven't 
 made it public. 
 Let's go ahead and make this object public so actions make public and make public. 
 And so now if we go in and have a look at the file we'll be able to say here it is Hello cloud gurus. 
 This is version 3 This is the best version. 
 Let's go and see what has just happened without our bucket. 
 So if we go back over here and we go over to cross region replication you'll be able to see it in here 
 and it is going to be the latest version. 
 So as soon as we start making changes to a bucket with cross region replication turned on those changes 
 will automatically be replicated. 
 Let's go back to our bucket and go and have a look at the different versions if we actually turn versioning 
 awful. 
 We'll hide versioning and go over to here and go actions delete. 
 Let's see if that is going to delete the object in the other bucket. 
 So we can see it here. 
 It's got a delete marker over it. 
 We've got the three different versions. 
 We go back to s three and go to our bucket with cross region replication. 
 You can see that the delete marker has not been replicated. 
 So if you do put a delete marker in the original bucket it's not going to replicate that delete marker 
 to the other but and that's been done deliberately by Amazon to stop people from accidentally replication 
 replicating deletes from one bucket to another. 
 Let's try one last thing where we go in and delete the actual version. 
 So if we go in here and we go ahead and we can delete our delete marker. 
 So that will restore our object. 
 And then if we actually go in and delete the latest version let's see if that will automatically delete 
 in the cross region replication bucket as well. 
 So we go back over here and click on cross region replication and you can see that it is still the latest 
 version. 
 So basically once you turn cross region replication on it's not going to replicate delete markers and 
 it's not going to replicate when you go in and delete individual versions. 
 So let's go over to my exam tips. 
 So onto my exam tips so just remember with cross region replication that versioning must be enabled 
 on both the source and destination. 
 Bucket your regions have to be unique. 
 And then files in an existing bucket are not replicated automatically. 
 So we saw that when we turned it on that firewall wasn't automatically replicated. 
 But when we added a new file that new file was automatically replicated to the region in Ireland. 
 So all subsequent updated files will be replicated automatically. 
 Also remember that delete markers are not replicated. 
 So if you do a delete marker it's not going to be replicated to your destination bucket. 
 And also that deleting individual versions or delete markers will also not be replicated. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys if you have any questions please let me know if not feel free to 
 move to the next lecture where we look at transfer acceleration.