So let's look a little bit deeper into the resources section of the arm template.
Like I said in the less video this really is where a lot of the work gets done.
Let's break out there's multiple resources that are inside this template.
Let's break this down into them.
So I'm going to select the first resource.
This first resource it says type Microsoft Dot network slash network interfaces.
So this is a network interface card.
It takes the name of the interface card from the parameters file it has some pretty static code for
API version.
The location is the same as the region that we passed in the parameters.
Remember we additionally have the tags when we are creating this resource in the portal.
We assign a tag to it and that tag.
It's part of the deployment now a network interface card has an IP address.
And so the IP address is being set setup in the next property here IP configuration.
There's the IP address being created.
OK.
Going down it's giving the network security group and NSG I.D. and the last section might be a what
really signifies how this gets created because this network interface card actually relies depends on
other resources being there first the virtual network has to exist before the NIC card the public IP
address has to exist and the nearest security group.
So all three are dependencies and those three have to be created before the NIC card can get created.
In fact if you go to the very next resource which is a smaller one it's the network security group.
One of the ones that is a dependency for the nerve security the network interface card.
Now it's in the network security group is a lot simpler.
It just requires location.
It passes the tags and it has rules that are being passed in the military.
Basically the default rules with the RTP I think we have already P P and a few to be as open as well
the V net is also a section Microsoft Network slash virtual networks.
OK.
So this is basically just in Jason format all of the choices that we made in the portal actually become
they get translated into these Jason statements and this is what gets executed even within the portal.
So really what we're seeing is a reflection of what we what we created.
Now what Microsoft wants us to do you're going to find on the test that arm templates are actually a
big part a big part of the test they certainly were a part of seventy five three three and there's no
reason why Microsoft going to continue talking about our template because they really think that's the
backbone of managing resources with an Azure is understanding this language and being able to edit it.
So it is within your best interest that you start to create these arm templates for all of the resources.
So when you're in the azure portal creating resources as a learning exercise you should go grab the
arm template showed you how to do that by downloading the deployment after the deployments were made
and it should make logical sense what's being what's happening here.
So this public IP address why the tags are there why it's in the location it is why the IP address name
and which of the IP address skews is being created right.
These are all parameters that are being passed into create the IP address now creating a virtual machine
is actually quite complex because even with you did it with power shall you need to make multiple power
show statements in order to gather all of the resources that are required to create a virtual machine.
So the virtual machine I want to scroll down here the dependency is on the network interface and the
network interface had three other dependencies if you recall.
We also have the schedule remember we set this up with a shutdown time we wanted this to shut down and
see what's in the parameters.
So if I go into the parameters network security rules I bet you we can find that we said it was like
5:00 p.m..
So here's a shut down time seventeen hundred hours Eastern Standard Time.
OK we don't want to be notified and we want it in notification if it was would be in English so you
can see here six parameters are five parameters having to do with the auto shutdown specifically which
we defined when we were setting up this virtual machine.
And so the auto shutdown is a whole resource that needs to be created as well so that definitely we
want you to go through armed template samples I'm going to link you to I'm going to actual next video
I'm going to show you the arm templates that are available and get hub.
That's also a good place to start and again we need to get into actually making changes to this and
then we can deploy this Let's say we deploy this into a different region with our changes and it should
work.
So let's do that.
