So in this section of the course we're gonna be talking about Azure Active Directory.
We'll show you how to create it how to upgrade to the premium level.
Some of those features like identity protection and self service password reset etc..
Now Azure a D is Microsoft's preferred and recommended solution for providing security services to your
applications.
And so the concept here is you register your application with Azure a D and then you can basically delegate
the user I.D. management the log in user I.D. and password multi factor authentication all of the intelligence
that needs to happen in order to secure the User's Accounts you delegate that to Azure A.D. Azure charges
you for that service of course but it's basically user management as a service identity as a service
we look at some of the features one of the coolest ones is to be able to integrate with your on premises
a D.
And so this concept of a single sign on means that users already have a username and password for your
organization and that's managed by your on premises Active Directory Server.
So Azure a d actually synchronize with your on premises server so that users who already have identity
can just use that identity in the cloud and no need for a second account.
So basically tying in with Azure a D for your application gives a big advantage to your existing users.
There's also basically developer tools so that you can then register your application you can use the
rolls and the various things that are set up within a d within your application and you don't even have
to code much of this or you just delegate that to Azure.
Now we're gonna get into that in this section we're gonna get into how to create it and some of those
advanced features that are covered by this exam Azure a d does work with external users so even if you
have an on premises a D in your use your employees are covered by that you don't necessarily want to
be adding people who are not employees to your on premises.
And so this concept of working with social media companies like Facebook and Google and Linked In or
working with your partners who can then link their a D to yours or even just an invitation to an individual
user to join.
So there's a many different ways you can get external people working with your
let's talk about the different tiers if we go down to this pricing section.
We can see that Microsoft currently provides pretty much three different tiers that are relevant to
this discussion.
Now there is an Office 365 tier.
This isn't an Office 365 course or exam.
And so we're not going to be talking about that but there is a free tier and then there are two premium
premium P1 and premium free to up until recently there was a basic tier so you may see reference to
the basic tier but Microsoft said that not a lot of people were choosing it.
And so they just basically remove it as an option.
So you're either on the free plan or you're going to want to upgrade to one of the premium plants.
Now the free tier as you would expect is limited.
And so you don't have unlimited objects and unlimited applications.
You have a five hundred thousand object limit.
What does that mean.
So you're able to create users and register users in your application groups and other Azure objects
roles etc. Those are all individual things that are stored in your A.
So there's an upper limit of five hundred thousand aggregate of all of those different no matter what
type it is that your story and then it has up to 10 single sign on supported applications.
And so if you want to use your on premises a d You can use that up to 10 apps so that's it's I would
say it's a fairly generous limit for a lot of uses.
Now maybe if you worry global multinational corporation this this limit starts to be cumbersome but
then you're just going to end up upgrading and we'd have to pay for it.
So if we scroll down on this page here I'm going to skip over the Office 365 section and we're gonna
go right into talking about what what do you get on the premium side.
Now one of the more significant things that you get is the ability for users to update their password.
And so if you have an application and the users like Oh I I'm not happy with this password anymore.
And so I'm going to go and update it.
They can they can update that and that can actually optionally be pushed back to your on premises a
D so they update their password on the and Azure.
That gets pushed back into their windows environment and then they use the new password when they log
in next time into their desktop.
There's another bunch of other things here.
We'll go down to talking about things like dynamic groups where we can create a group now for free even
create a static group which is just a group and then you identify the five or 10 members you put the
members in the group then you can assign permissions to that group but you can have dynamic groups where
everyone who's got the word developer in their job title is part of that group or anyone who's in this
section of the you know this role.
This part of their name their location etc. You can have groups that are based on their properties.
Conditional access is cool too.
And we do have a section of this course in a few minutes here talking about conditional access but you
have to be on the premium tier to be able to have any basically any of these advanced features like
Azure information protection is like a DRM for your documents.
And so you can mark documents as having read only access and not forwarded and it will integrate with
Office 365 and make sure that things don't get taken out of Azure and posted to the web or forwarded
to external e-mail addresses scrolling down.
We've got we had MFA in a previous section being able to use external MFA providers that's in premium
mode.
Now the P2.
So now that was the p 1 tier you have to actually for any of this artificial intelligence.
So this identity protection is actually checking your accounts regularly to see if anything suspicious
is going on and can shut those accounts down or pause them or enable extra extra checks.
So any of this sort of risk these risk based continual continual conditional access.
And any of this and artificial intelligence machine learning pattern recognition actively protecting
your account privilege identity management it's pretty cool.
This is when you have administrators and people with elevated privileges and basically forcing them
to to provide additional multifactorial indication because if you're logging in as you're user it's
for one thing what if your logging is an admin we want to be extra careful access reviews allows you
to force the managers to review membership of groups to make sure that everyone who has access to an
application or to a particular group of applications every six months every year somebody is forced
to go through and review that access and then revoke it if it's no longer needed.
Now you can see the pricing so the free tier is free.
The P ones here is around six dollars a month per user.
And the P two tier nine dollars per month per user so I've kind of flew through this we've got some
videos coming up talking about a self service password reset at any protection conditional access extra
access reviews how to set up your a D for the first time.
So anyways that's the overview of what you get from Microsoft Azure A.D..
