Now if you don't have as your Active Directory it's as simple as going into the marketplace.
You click the green plus sign.
Search for Active Directory and you'll see Azure Active Directory listed among the results we say create.
Then it's very simple to create an Active Directory.
You give it a name and then you basically have to create a domain name which is all a dot on Microsoft
dot com so you basically give an initial domain name and your organizational name.
Pick your region and then click Create and you Microsoft will create for you an empty free Azure Active
Directory.
Now I'm just gonna use the active directory that I previously created.
You can see that my organization name is Scott's course outlook and the domain name is Scott's course
I looked at Microsoft dot com this is an Azure free account and the basic concept with Azraq directory
the core of it is going to be around users groups and roles.
OK and now you add applications into your active directory and they can basically be assigned roles
and permissions based on that so they go into the user section.
I can see that I've previously created three users two of them being members of my active directory
and one being an external be to be guest user and I can very easily manually add more users up to five
hundred thousand to my free account simply by just going and adding a new user into here.
Now those users can then be grouped into perhaps their roles.
So if you have you know your customers are using your application then you can create a customers group
and you could have members of that group.
And based on the membership of the group they might have certain permissions within your application.
Employees supervisors accounting department I.T. department developers you can create groups of similar
people and then assign users to that group.
