Now he said before that Active Directory is for managing users its identity as a service.
And so theoretically you can go into your Active Directory and you can say I want to add a new user
let's add Joe Smith as a user now.
Joe Smith.
His email is Joe dot Smith at gmail dot com.
OK.
We're going to add Joe Smith as a user but we'll see right away that we cannot add Joe Smith as a as
a full on user Because G.M. dot com is not our domain name and of course it's a Google account.
Can never be our domain name.
So we have to use a domain for Joe Smith.
And so let's say oh it's company dot com.
But even company dot com is not a managed verified domain name in this active directory.
So the first thing that we're going to need to do is add a custom domain name.
Now what's something will work.
I'll show you what it will work because we created this Active Directory as Scots course outlook at
DOT on Microsoft dot com.
So if I put Joe Smith at Scotts course I'll look at a dot on Microsoft dot com as the e-mail address
that will work because this domain is managed by this Active Directory even though this isn't a real
email account we could create a user with this e-mail account and it would be a valid user to log into
our applications.
But many of us want to do single sign on we want users to be able to use the same user ID password in
Active Directory in their company as much as well as using our applications that connect to Azure Active
Directory so to do that we're going to need to add a custom domain name.
So going to close off that go to the top level and we're going to see custom domain names down the settings
here going to here.
And right now we've got the default which was when we created it Scott's course I looked up on Microsoft
dot com this I added a long time ago cloud cafe dot co.
It is a verified domain but what we want to do.
Let's add a another verified domain.
What this means is we'll be able to add our company domain to this Azure directory and if we can verify
that we own it then users can use those domain names to credit counts and to log in.
Now I happen to own a number of domain names and so we're going to use one of my domain names.
Here are courses dot net.
So we're going to tell Microsoft Azure Active Directory that we own this domain and then we should be
able to manage users that have this domain name.
So I'm going to say add domain.
Now we do need to prove that we own it.
This is very similar to the way that Microsoft requires proof for a DNS when you're doing DNS records
managed applications.
So we need to prove that we own it in order to prove that we own it.
We need to add the following information into our domain name service.
So this is a t t record with this alias and this text field basically.
And so we're gonna have to go to our registrar modify this to add a t t record and prove that we own
this now my register happens to be named cheap.
And so I'm going to have to go into the DNS section so I go down here going to DNS and we're going to
have to add.
Like it says A T T record.
Now it already contains one t t record.
So we're going to have to add a new record this is a t x t record host is an apt symbol according to
this the copy the value and they want the TTL to be 1 hour which is thirty six hundred and so I'm going
to say C. So this is saved.
And if we go back to the as your Web site we can click the verify button.
But for now it's not going to find this t t record that it's looking for.
We'll give the DNS system a let's give it a day to update.
So to order to a custom domain you just have to add it very simply but then you have to prove that you
own it and you prove that you own it by making changes to the DNS records
so it's the next morning and I go into the here of course is dot net domain I click verify and it see
says domain name verified.
And so it was successfully verified close the so and we can see that now here of course is dot net is
a valid domain in the list of domains.
If I go over to the user section and create a new user I can create test user and if I use the.
Here of course is dot net domain.
Then you can see that Microsoft puts a green checkmark next to it which means it's a valid domain.
So in this video we've added a custom domain to Active Directory which you can start using for users
and systems.
