So we've given it a couple of minutes and it was successfully updated our account to Azure Active Directory
premium P to level the P2 level allows us to use all of the advanced features that we're about to investigate.
Now this is just a test account.
Unfortunately does not have very many users or any applications or anything associated with it but it's
good for this purpose I guess first thing we're gonna do.
We're going to investigate something called Azure a d identity protection but go into the new tab go
down to identity category.
We saw that Azure a d identity protection is in yellow here.
Now it's chosen our account Scots test directory for this.
If this is not the correct account you can't change it here.
You have to go over to the top right and say switch directory.
Now I already have identity protection enabled.
But if you don't you just come down here and click the create button and that will enable the Azure
identity protection onto your account.
Now identity protection is a series of machine learning algorithms that will analyze the user's Loggins
and any sort of vulnerabilities in your active directory account.
So this is using some of those advanced A.I. machine learning features in order to warn you about things
that could be happening within your active directory suspicious Loggins users that are not using their
active directory as you would expect.
And again it allows you to improve your security by bringing this to your attention.
You're also able to set policies that will restrict access you won't block Loggins or require a multi
factor authentication or require a password change under certain risky conditions so you click Create
and this will be enabled for your account.
I've already got this enabled Sony to close this up.
And if I go into the services I can type a D and that will bring up the identity protection service
go into it where we can see here now there's a whole new set of services that's going to tell us about
the security of our active directory account now right now.
I said there's nothing really going on I don't have any risk events.
There's no high medium or low events that I need to investigate.
There's no users that are flagged for suspicious activity and there's been no vulnerabilities detected
in my account that's not strange for my account if you ran this on a very large active directory you'd
might find different results.
On the left we see there's an investigate section and that's where you're going to investigate each
of these three things users risk events and vulnerabilities.
And so if there were things to investigate you would start here.
The real fun happens in the configuration tab.
So this is where you're going to set the policy that determines what is considered a risky user what
is considered a risky signing.
So again to click on assigning risk.
Now this is a policy that I can create that says for this type of user I want this in this situation
I want this to happen and it's going to estimate the impact if I had a thousand signings a day but I
set up a new policy it's going to impact 500 of them it's going to let me know ok then at the bottom
I can turn this policy off and on now all users is pretty self-explanatory.
You're going to hit you can actually select individual users or exclude individual users.
Now why would you want to exclude individual users from a security policy.
Well there might be certain categories of users within your organization that are naturally going to
be doing riskier things and you do not want them to be always having to call support always having to
change their password.
So for instance you might have a development team that is going to use their accounts to use programs
or they're going to do a certain testing on this.
And you know you may want to exclude your development team from the strongest policies et cetera.
I mean it's a total corporate decision basically in terms of what policies how strong to enforce the
policies and whether you do it evenly across the organization or you exclude certain individuals or
you make it stronger based on your job role etc. so I'm gonna leave that is all users but we can certainly
filter this policy down only to a subset the conditions where the machine learning kicks in.
So we basically set a high medium or low risk level.
So if somebody is detected.
Remember we talked about sign and risk.
One example assigning risk would be somebody is logging in from a geographic location in which they've
never logged in before.
So suddenly I'm not trying to pick on a region of the world but in you know a remote area of northern
Russia someone logs into your application that could be considered a high risk sign in.
And you may want to set a policy that says wait a second.
If somebody is logging in from a area of the world that we're not expecting people to log in from then
we want to take additional precautions on that account.
OK so we can say we want this to apply to almost everyone low risk medium risk or only high risk science
and choose medium.
In this case
now what do we want to happen.
So let's say for all users if the machine learning algorithm detects it's a medium or high risk.
What do we want to happen.
So we go into controls and we can either just blanket we allow access.
We can require low access as long as they pass a multi factor authentication which would be a cell phone
and a mess message and email etc..
Another way of verifying their identity before we allow them access to their account or we can just
deny access and then they'd have to call the help desk or something like that to get them to get past
it.
OK so allowing access with multiple factor authentication seems like a reasonable precaution or a high
risk or medium risk sign.
Again from a device that you don't recognize from a location you don't recognize in a date and time
that is not usually expected et cetera.
Now that's my policy.
Now we can review what this policy would impact against my account.
Now again this is a test account
Microsoft seems to be crying here.
There's no there's no data for them to analyze.
But this happens I guess.
But presumably if you had thousands of users and thousands of signings they would be able to say oh
this would have impacted one tenth of one percent of your sign ins and then turn the policy on and say
save.
And now you have a new policy that's putting against your active directory account that will restrict
medium risk science to require authentication multifactorial indication bosons.
Now they have the same other than the signing policy course there is the user themselves.
Right.
So if they that they sign it or not they can choose certain conditions.
So again we can choose which users it applies to.
We can choose a risk level low medium or high and above and so what we want to happen whether we want
to block access or require a password change so for instance let's say a user has not logged in in like
12 months.
That could be the next time that they log in.
That's an unusual event and you may want to require password change.
So instead of requiring two factor authentication This is just saying you know it's been a long time
since you've been here.
Let's get you to reset your password
and again you can review the user's impacted.
Turn this on and it becomes a user risky.
And then this will get calculated on a daily basis into your report and then you can start to investigate
these things.
You can set alerts weekly digest e-mail to you.
And specifically you probably want to pin this to your dashboard
in order for this to be
basically something useful for you to review.
So that's Azure a d identity protection is pretty easy to turn on and pretty easy to setup these types
of policies.
Microsoft has an arc on a Web site talking about best practices.
Certainly something we're looking to if you need to really set this up in a production setting.
