So next up we're going to talk about something called self service password reset go under the password
reset setting on your Active Directory account.
You could see this option to enable self-service password reset.
This means that users of your active directory can are free to change their passwords using Azure Active
Directory and use you as an administrator don't need to be involved in order to reset their password.
So this seems like a smart thing to enable you do require a premium account in order to get access to
this.
Now you've got three options here is to turn it off which is the default.
You can turn it on for all users or you can select a subset which in this case would be a group.
So you go into selected select group I've enabled this for the accounting group which is which is a
group in my Active Directory and click save.
So now there's going to basically be anyone who's a member of the accounting group is going to be allowed
to change their Active Directory password without support intervention.
The key settings here is under authentication methods to start.
So first question is the number of methods required to reset.
So when the users the next time the user is going to sign in they're going to to have to register for
this self service password reset.
And that includes providing an e-mail address and phone number.
Office phone maybe questions they can fill out.
So how many methods are required in order for them to successfully change their password.
The default here is one that seems to make sense depending on the kind of security you want to enable
you can then force them to both do email and ask them as codes as a double method in order to reset.
That's a bit excessive but it's appropriate for some people I guess.
Now you have these six options for users to be able to authenticate.
They can use a authenticator app.
And that's a code that gets randomly generated on their phone that they have to enter.
We see that in a lot of places you know sending the password reset by email an SMI Spencer's their phone
call to their office phone or answer a number of security questions so by default email and phone are
the two options.
I'm going to leave that unchanged when we go to the registration section.
This is going to say do we require users to register so the next time they sign in they must provide
a mobile phone.
They should have their email address already.
But these stuff is a name is required in order for us to enable some sort of signing.
And how many days are they going to be reported to verify their phone number and their email address
in this case.
That's one hundred and eighty days so every six months they're going to say is this still correct so
we can see we've set up self-service password reset.
Let's see if we can test it so here I am being asked to log into my account I'm going to pick that John
Doe user which happened to be John at Scotts test account at all members of a com.
I have two enter password
so we can see here that Microsoft now prompting us to us to do this password self-service password reset
registration.
So we have to provide a full mail phone and an email in order for us to move past this and we've actually
got to zoom in a little bit here we've got a timer that got 15 minutes in order to provide the phone
and the email.
And so this is going to basically allow our users to be able to recover the password reset their password
without having to go through any kind of support which is obviously a great benefit.
