So the next security setting we're going to investigate here with an Active Directory is called conditional
access.
We go into our Active Directory which is a premium account.
Scroll down we can see under security that conditional access is one of the options will go into their
now by default.
We get this baseline policy which says we require multi factor authentication for admins and clicking
to it.
We can see that it's explaining it here.
Basically any administrator that is part of this group which are global Active Directory administrators
or any of the specific applications like SharePoint Exchange or security administrators they must have
multi factor authentication and you can see that it's automatically enabled in the future use policy
immediately.
Do not use policy you can sort of set the settings.
Also you can keep exclude users although if you're going to set a policy like this having administrators
that don't require multiple server indication seems like a security hole.
So maybe this isn't the best policy to have exclusions but you can basically set number of requirements
for this.
This this comes with it but we get this concept now right.
So in terms of a conditional access policy you're basically selecting either all users or specific users
and we're basically selecting which condition we want them to require multi factor authentication very
similar to the identity protection feature.
Again this was specifically for administrators but if we go into here we say for selected users and
I'm going to select I'm going to select the accounting department again to keep picking on them
for all oh so this even includes the portal.
Right.
So anyone who's in the accounting department this policy if they get locked out of their account they're
going to get locked out even under the portal.
So make sure there's somebody who can get in.
So this is only the account department so let's call this accounting rules that's fine.
I want I want them to be included.
So under what condition do we want accounting users to have to go through multi vector authentication
so we've got these categories to sign and risk which devices that you're using where at locations they're
in what apps they're accessing and what the state of their devices.
Take one of these one at a time.
So again very similar to the identity protection thing.
There is a machine learning elements that basically categorizes someone as low risk medium risk or high
risk when they do assign it.
So that's that's sort of the definition of that.
And so if we want to say well if they are any in a high risk situation we want this policy to apply
to them device platforms.
If they are using a let's say they're using a phone device.
So Android Iowa and Windows Phone are the platforms that we want this policy to apply to.
But if they're using the desktop then the public policy doesn't apply to them Do we want any locations
so we can we can basically say any location that they're in is this policy will apply or any trusted
location or other locations.
OK so
let's not configured locations in which apps they're going to be through browser or mobile apps or any
apps that you register to your account.
And whether they are in the high part of the hybrid network etc..
So that turned out.
So this is basically for high sign and risks.
In fact.
I mean it's interest to all platforms so no matter what platform you're on if you are a high risk.
This policy will apply to you.
Now what do we want to happen for all users in the accounting group who are part of a high risk situation
again.
We can either block access to them or we can grant access to them with multi factor authentication requiring
them to be on a specific device like their office laptop versus personal laptop.
They have to be part of the hybrid network to be logged into Windows.
So you'll sign on they have to be using an approved app in order to do logging etc. so we can basically
set the controls here.
There's also session level controls.
And so we can basically allow them to log into the application but then give them very limited things
that they can do within this single sign on application.
Here we are.
We can turn this policy on.
So I'm going to go back to the access controls are going to see grant access but require multi factor
authentication.
Turn the policy on and create.
And so now we have a requiring multilateral authentication for all admins and multifactorial indication
will be required if people are logged in.
But as your identifies as a high risk scenario no matter what type of device they use Windows device
or Mac or mobile device they're going to have to go through two factor authentication as well.
So those that's using conditional access policies to restrict access to your applications.
And until the portal as well based on machine learning was essentially.
