All right.
So you see me a few times switching between Active Directory accounts I go to the top right here.
There is a switch directory link and I can see that I have a few Azure Active Directory accounts.
I can set which directory is the default.
So when I log in this is what's going to be chosen first.
And it's fairly easy to switch to between between different accounts.
We also saw earlier it's pretty easy to create new accounts.
So if you do need multiple active directories it's pretty straight forward to continuing now in this
video we don't talk about access reviews.
Now one of the challenging things when you get into working with large active directories is managing
all the different accesses of all your users and all your groups making sure that everyone has the access
that they need and not more.
And basically the days day to day operations of managing the security of your organization so Microsoft
has been providing a number of tools and we've gone through in this section.
Security tools privilege identity management etc. But what we're talking about in this video is access
reviews so I have this account it's still on the Azure a premium level.
And so we're going to go into the search box here and we're going to see access and you can see access
reviews is one of the services that's listed
so I can go into access reviews and basically it's telling me that access Reviews allow you to review
and reduce employee and guest group permissions and access to the applications of your organization
you can do a compliance and risk management.
And basically if you have guest users you can remove their access once they're once their guests usage
is over.
Now you do need a premium P to account to get access to this or an enterprise mobility and security
e-commerce license e 5.
So you have to go through an onboarding process to get started using these features.
So we see most of it is great out.
We do have to click the onboarding button.
Now we have to create a ourselves an onboarding access reviews so clicking the create button will get
us started of that so that only to the few seconds we have now onboard access reviews we're taking to
a familiar overview screen here and we can see that if we had applications associated with this account
we would have apps to review and groups to review.
We haven't done any of the reviews yet.
Application access or group access.
So right now we're sort of seeing that our access is at zero basically
so what is an Access Review.
Basically we're going to go either group by group or application by application and get a set of reviewers
one or more people to review all the members of the group or all the people with access to the application
and to provide basically approval or denial for them to have continued access.
Let's kick off this review group members.
We have to give the review a name.
So let's call this test review one.
Now it has a start and an end date.
If you're going to run this as a one time review then you could say it starts today and it ends a month
from now.
You do have the option of scheduling this maybe weekly is a bit excessive but monthly quarterly or annually
reviews of people who have access to this group or access to the application let's schedule this as
a monthly review.
How many days though the reviewers have to review access.
Let's only give them five days.
OK.
So because it's a monthly job it's a reasonable amount of time for them to get their work done.
And so we can say how many how.
How many occurrences is it going to have.
So let's say this is a monthly job we want this to be a monthly review for the next twelve months.
Compare can never end.
We're going to say we want to review the members of the group we want to review everyone not just guest
members and we're going to select the accounting group there it is say select the reviewers are in this
case are going to be Group owners.
OK I guess you can get people to review their own access.
But in this case the group owners are the ones who are going to have to approve members of the group.
And we're going to tend to this every month pilot programs.
But right now it comes to the default program that gets interesting as we get down into the completion
settings.
So the person reviewing the access to this group is going to basically approve or deny access to those
members of the group and either we want to auto apply those results.
So at the end of the review it's after the five days we say you know what if the person's been denied
access we're going to automatically remove their access and what do you do should the reviewer not respond.
So after the five days pass and the person who's responsible for reviewing access just didn't get in
there to do any reviews.
Do you remove everyone's access.
Do you approve everyone's access.
So basically you've got a number of options here.
So let's say we're going to be pretty brutal if you don't respond ever we're gonna kick every one other
group.
That's that's pretty extreme.
That's that security.
Right.
So the person who's supposed to be reviewing access doesn't do their job then everyone suffers essentially
you do have some advanced settings and we can see that requires a reason that we're going to do notifications
by mail we're going to remind people that they're that they have to get access done so the reviewers
have not complete the review they're going to get regular reminders.
Those are all enabled by default and basically we're going to kick off a review so basically an Access
Review is this a job within Microsoft Azure that basically requires Group owners or application owners
to review all of the members of that and all of the people who have access those apps and they basically
have to on a regular basis or a one time basis ensure that the people who are accessing it are supposed
to and that's part of a good security protocol.
