 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clubbers and welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is on simple workflow service and this is a super short lecture because basically all you 
 need to know is what S.W. F. is where it's used. 
 And basically it's use cases versus escudos and that's what you're going to be quizzed on in your exam. 
 They'll give you a scenario and you basically have to choose whether or not you're going to be using 
 escudos or s w f.. 
 So what is S.W. F S W F stands for Amazon. 
 Simple workflow service and it's a web service that makes it easy to coordinate work across distributed 
 application components. 
 So it's a way of coordinating work across a whole bunch of different components within your application 
 and S.W. f enables applications for a wide range of use cases including media media processing web application 
 back ends business process workflows analytic pipelines and it's basically used to be designed as a 
 coordination of tasks and tasks represents invocation of various processing steps in an application 
 which can be performed by executable code web service calls human interactions and scripts. 
 So does that actually mean. 
 Or S S W F is a way of coordinating both your applications as well as with human beings as well as with 
 manual processes. 
 And where does this typically used where Amazon actually use it themselves inside their warehouse. 
 So when you go to Amazon.com and you order a book that's going to be executed by code and then you go 
 and do your payment again that's going to be a series of algorithms that go through and you know take 
 the money from your credit card. 
 However when the actual order comes in somebody in the warehouse has to go and find that order. 
 They then have to walk it to a packing station and then they basically apply an address label to it 
 put it in a box and then posted off to you. 
 And so this is a human interaction. 
 So that's where the human element gets involved. 
 And so S.W. F has a way of basically combining your you know your digital environment along with manual 
 tasks along with human beings. 
 So whenever you see S.W. just remember how Amazon use it themselves. 
 They use it inside a warehouse and that's not the only example where you could use it but that is definitely 
 a most memorable way of remembering how S.W. F is used. 
 So if you've got a scenario based question where it's talking about you know you've got a human element 
 to it and you need to choose a particular service where you're not gonna be using excuse because humans 
 can't really go and you know poll the ask us Q I suppose you could do if you like an easy to instance 
 so you could get an easy to instance to do it but that doesn't really involve any human interaction 
 if it involves any kind of human interaction or any kind of manual process then you're going to be using 
 S.W. F and that's all you really know need to know about S.W. for the exam I've taken a couple of exams 
 recently and I haven't seen it on there but it has been on there quite heavily in the last three or 
 four years so it may still be an exam topic it may not. 
 Just remember that you basically just need to know the difference between S.W. F and escudos so SRS 
 has a retention period of 14 days and with S.W. f the workflow executions can last up to one year. 
 So just imagine ordering a book on Amazon and it's taking one year to arrive at Amazon S.W. f presents 
 a task orientated API whereas Amazon escudos offers a message orientated API so again if you see a scenario 
 based question where it's talking about a task think of S.W. if viewers see a scenario based question 
 talks about loosely decoupling your architecture then that's going to be. 
 S q s S.W. f ensures that a task is assigned only once and is never duplicated with escudos. 
 You need to be able to handle duplicated messages certainly if you're just using default Eskew s QS 
 ignored the CFO for now and may also need to ensure that a message is processed only once and then S.W. 
 f keeps track of all the tasks and events in an application and with Eskew as you need to implement 
 your own application level tracking especially if your applications use multiple cues. 
 So that's the main difference between S.W. F and escudos. 
 Again I haven't seen it in the last two exams that I've taken but it could still be on there. 
 It's certainly has been on there for the last four or five years so just understand the difference between 
 them. 
 Also remember what S.W. f actors are so essentially they're composed of two different things we've got 
 our workflow starters and this is an application that can initiate or start a workflow so maybe it's 
 when you've ordered a book on Amazon.com could be your e-commerce website following the placement of 
 an order of mobile app searching for bus times and then you've got your deciders. 
 And this basically controls the flow over the activity tasks in a workflow execution and if something 
 is finished or failed in a workflow a decider decides what to do next and then you have your activity 
 workers and these are basically the workers that go in and carry out the activity tasks again like I 
 said this hasn't really come up in the last two exams that I've done. 
 But historically you have had to know what S.W. F is. 
 Do you see anything mentioning workflows starters deciders or activity workers. 
 Again think S.W.. 
 But if it's Eskew as if it's about messaging then you want excuse. 
 In the scenario based questions. 
 So that is it for this lecture everyone. 
 Like I said very very quick. 
 You don't need any hands on experience with it. 
 You just need to understand the difference between S.W. F and Eskew as in the next lecture we're going 
 to look at S.A. and we're going to just look at the overall theory. 
 We set up S.A. when we set up our billing alerts. 
 You have seen it in action before and we are gonna see it in action when we go and build our service 
 website in the next section of the course. 
 So if you get the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.