 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello cloud gurus and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at simple notification 
 service or s and s. 
 So what is S.A. I'm sure most of you know what it is by now we did look at it when we set up a billing 
 alert for our NWS environment but basically S N S is simple notification service and it's a web service 
 that makes it easy to setup operate and send notifications from the cloud and it provides developers 
 with a highly scalable flexible and cost effective capability to publish messages from an application 
 and immediately delivered them to subscribers or to other applications. 
 So S.A. allows you to do push notifications you can do these to Apple to Google to fire OS and to Windows 
 devices as well as Android devices in China with bio cloud push. 
 So it allows you to do push notifications to your mobile devices. 
 And besides pushing a cloud notifications directly to mobile devices S.A. can also deliver notifications 
 by SMS text messages or by email to Amazon escudos or to any hate TTP endpoints. 
 It's a way of pushing out information both to mobile devices as well as text messages as well as to 
 escudos or to any heat TTP endpoint. 
 And it basically allows you to group multiple recipients using topics and a topic is basically an access 
 point all just think of it as like what you would think a topic would be for allowing recipients to 
 dynamically subscribe for identical copies of the same notification. 
 So when you set a billing alert for example that's a billing topic you might have a auto scaling alert 
 which is a separate topic. 
 And basically you have subscribers within those topics. 
 So one topic can support deliveries to multiple endpoint types. 
 For example you can group together OS Android and S M S recipients. 
 And when you publish once to a topic s an S delivers appropriately formatted copies of your message 
 to each subscriber and then to prevent messages from being lost or messages published to S.A. are stored 
 redundantly across multiple Availability Zones so you don't have to worry about S and S's availability. 
 It is stored redundantly across multiple bases. 
 And that's really it. 
 You just need to understand what S N S is and the benefits. 
 So in terms of my exam tips what are the benefits for S.A.. 
 Well it gives you instantaneous push based delivery so there's no polling. 
 This is push. 
 It's gives you a simple API and easy integration with applications. 
 You get flexible message delivery over multiple transport protocols. 
 It's inexpensive. 
 It's pay as you go model with no upfront costs. 
 And it's web based AWB management console offers the simplicity of point and click interface. 
 You can go into the management console and just configure your S.A. notifications it's super simple. 
 We're going to see that in the next section of the course. 
 And then finally really what you need to understand is S.A. versus escudos and you'll find this is a 
 common theme amongst your different application services. 
 Amazon like to quiz you on the differences between S.W. F and escudos and then S.A. and rescuers. 
 So both S and S and SC US are both messaging systems in AWB s but S.A. is push you push in the messages 
 out to your different devices by a text message or via notifications etc. Whereas escudos is pool based. 
 You have to have easy two instances sitting there pulling the excuse. 
 Q So again if you've got a scenario based question whether asking you if it should be pushed out to 
 individual users via notification or via text message then thing. 
 S.A. or via email I think S.A.. 
 But if you've got a scenario based question where you need easy two instances to poll information then 
 that's going to be escudos and that is literally it. 
 Understand the difference between S.A. and rescuers as well as what SARS is. 
 So that is it for this lecture everyone in the next lecture we're going to look at Elastic trans. 
 And again you just basically need to understand what it is they're going to go onto API Gateway and 
 then Kansas City got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.