 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture this lecture is another very quick lecture on elastic trans 
 coda. 
 Again this is something that I haven't seen recently in the exams however historically it has been in 
 there. 
 So going to keep this really really quick. 
 So what is elastic trans coda or basically elastic trans coda is a way of its immediate trans coda in 
 the cloud. 
 So it's a way of converting your media files from their original source format into different formats 
 that will play on smartphones tablets pieces etc.. 
 So it's a way of trans coding video to multiple different devices and it provides a trans coding presets 
 for popular output formats. 
 Which means you don't need to guess about which settings work best on particular devices. 
 So it will do it for an iPhone it would do it for android. 
 It will do it for an iPhone X will do it for an iPhone 7 etc. etc. and basically the way it works is 
 it pays you pay based on the minutes that you transfer code and the resolution at which you trans code 
 as well. 
 And so this is how we use it at a cloud guru. 
 We have an S3 bucket. 
 Every time I record a video I basically go onto our website and I upload that video and it stores that 
 video in S3. 
 That then goes on and triggers a lambda function which we're going to learn about in the next section 
 of the course. 
 A lambda essentially will look at that video. 
 Take all the metadata and send it over to elastic trans coder and say hey I need you to trans code this 
 video so it looks really nice on all these different devices elastic trans kurta goes ahead and does 
 it does it in really high resolution and then it basically stores the trans coded videos in another 
 S3 bucket. 
 So we use elastic trans coder all the time we've been using it since 2015 since we first built the school 
 and it's a fantastic service. 
 And if you want to go ahead and read our very first blog about how we use elastic trans coder and about 
 our server lists school just go to it read dot a cloud dot guru in terms of my exam tips just remember 
 what elastic trans coda is it's an elastic trans coda or a media trans coda in the cloud and it converts 
 media files from their original source formats into different formats that will play on smartphones 
 tablets pieces cetera. 
 So that is it for this lecture and the next lecture we're going to look at API gateway. 
 We're gonna go in a little bit more depth to API Gateway because you are going to need to understand 
 it for the next section of the course. 
 When we go and build our surplus website and then we're going to have a quick look at consensus and 
 the three different types of cancers that there is and then we're done for the applications and then 
 we're going to move on to the serval section of the course. 
 If you got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.