 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture this lecture is on web identity Federation incognito. 
 So Coke Nieto has started coming up in the exam and in order to understand cognates. 
 Let's talk about Web identity federations. 
 So Web identity Federation lets you give your users access to AWB resources after they are successfully 
 authenticated with a web based identity provider like Amazon Facebook or Google. 
 And following the successful authentication the user receives an authentication code from the Web I.D. 
 provider which they then trade for temporary AWOL security credentials. 
 So a web identity federation is as when you're trying to sign into a website using your Facebook credentials 
 or your Google credentials or your Amazon credentials etc.. 
 And so what Amazon offer as a web identity Federation provide a service. 
 Is Amazon cognates. 
 So that's all it is Amazon cognates is a web identity Federation service and it has a whole bunch of 
 cool out of the box features so you can sign up and sign in to your apps using cognates so you can access 
 add access for guests users. 
 It acts as an identity broker between your application and your Web I.D. providers. 
 You don't need to write any additional code so you don't need to go in and write the code that says 
 sign in from Facebook or sign in from Google incognito handles all of this for you. 
 And it's synchronized as your user data for multiple devices. 
 So if you go in and change a username or maybe an email address or whatever on your mobile phone those 
 settings and changes will be replicated out to your other devices as well. 
 And basically Incognito is recommended for all mobile application AWP services. 
 So that's all that Cook NATO is it's a web identity Federation service by Amazon. 
 And basically there's a recommended approach for web identity Federation using social media accounts 
 like Facebook. 
 Essentially what you would do is let's say we've got a Web site that consists of lambda dynamo D.B. 
 as well as S3 got our user and they want to use these resources. 
 The first thing they're going to do is go and authenticate with Facebook. 
 Facebook will then give them this authentication token and they then essentially send this authentication 
 token to cognates so cognate will respond and then grant them access to your Adobe s environment depending 
 on what level of access that you permit. 
 And then they'll be able to do things like execute lambda functions store data in dynamo DB tables or 
 store images in S3 et cetera. 
 So they'll be able to access your AWOL environment. 
 Scott Nieto brokers between the app and Facebook or Google to provide temporary credentials which map 
 to an IAM role allowing access to the required resources. 
 And there's no need for the application to embed or store AWOL credentials locally on the device. 
 And it gives users a seamless experience across all mobile devices. 
 Now going into your exam you're going to be tested on Incognito really it's around the difference between 
 Incognito user pools as well as identity pools. 
 So I start with user pools user pools are basically just for your users their user directories and they 
 used to manage sign up and sign in functionality for mobile and web applications. 
 So Users can sign in directly to the user pools so that means their usernames and passwords basically 
 stored with Incognito itself or they could go ahead and use a third party identity broker like Facebook 
 Amazon or Google and what kog Nieto is going to do is is going to act as an identity broker between 
 the identity provider and AWB. 
 And successful authentication generates a Jason web token or JWT. 
 So if you see JWT it just stands for Jason Webb token and that's basically means that you've already 
 successfully authenticated with Amazon Google or Facebook. 
 Now identity pools are enabled to provide temporary AWOL credentials to access AWOL services like S3 
 or dynamo database identity pools or all about the authorization of access to AWOL resources whereas 
 user pools are all about your actual users. 
 So that's the difference between user pools and identity pools user pools are things like your maybe 
 your email address your password etc. etc. Whereas identity pools is the actual granting you access 
 to an AWOL resource. 
 So let's see all of this in action. 
 So we've got our user and she wants to connect into our website. 
 Essentially what she is going to do is she's going to log in using her Facebook account once Facebook 
 has authenticated her account as being genuine so her username and password is correct. 
 It's going to pass back a authentication token to cognates. 
 Cognitive is then going to convert that to a J W T token. 
 She then sends that JWT token to an identity pool and that identity pool will then grant her s credentials 
 in the form I.A. Admiral. 
 And then she will be able to go on and access her IWC resources. 
 So dynamo D.B. lambda etc. etc. So user pools are all about usernames passwords that sort of thing. 
 Identity pools is the actual granting of authentication to your AWP resources. 
 Another cool thing about cognates is the way it does synchronization so it tracks the association between 
 user identity and the various different devices that they sign in from. 
 So if you sign in from your iPad or from your phone it's all going to be tracked and in order to provide 
 a seamless user experience for your application cognitive users push synchronization to push updates 
 and synchronize user data across multiple devices. 
 Cognitive users S.A. to send a notification to all the devices associated with a given user identity. 
 Whenever data stored in the cloud changes so does this mean in action. 
 Well let's say we've got our user and they go in and they update their email address or they change 
 their password or whatever. 
 Maybe they change a setting inside their app. 
 What's going to happen is cog NATO is going to send out a SNF silent push notification and would send 
 that out to their laptop or to their phone or to their tablet. 
 And it means all those devices would be synchronized with the new data. 
 So onto my exam tips. 
 Just remember what cog NATO is Federation allows users to authenticate with a web identity provider 
 such as Google Facebook or Amazon. 
 The user authenticates first with the Web I.D. provider and then receives an authentication token. 
 This is exchange for temporary AWOL credentials allowing them to assume an admiral Incognito is an identity 
 broker which handles the interaction between your application and the Webb I.D. provider and you don't 
 need to go ahead and write your own code critically for the exam what you need to remember is the difference 
 between user pools and identity pools. 
 So user pool is user based. 
 It handles everything like user registration authentication account recovery etc etc. whereas an identity 
 pool actually goes in and grants you that I am role and allows you. 
 Basically it authorizes you access to your as resources. 
 So that's the difference between the two and you will be tested on that. 
 If you get any cognitive questions in your exam so that is it for this lecture everyone if you have 
 any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the summary lecture. 
 Thank you.