So why would a company want to use Azure Active Directory in their application development?
There's a few reasons for that.
We've already touched on this in the last video a little bit.
The first will be increased security, we just saw that a lot of these old systems were storing their
user IDs and passwords in a database, and those became the source of a lot of hacks historically.
So if you want to increase security, you can use an industry standard system that hundreds of thousands
and millions of organizations use, including Microsoft.
So it is a proven, tested, secure system.
The next thing is it's very easy to integrate with.
You don't have to write that code and maintain that code in, you know, store your data in your own
database.
Everything is provided for.
You just use their APIs and you can validate the identities of your users.
Microsoft is going to be able to develop more features in a thing like Azure ad than you could possibly
develop in your own authentication system.
There is multifactor authentication, conditional access privilege, identity management, all sorts
of special features, advanced threat detection and all these things built into Azure.
And simply, you know, tens of millions and hundreds of millions of dollars of R&amp;D has gone into this
system.
And you can use it for fairly cheaply if you have a number of applications.
Instead of having all your users having user IDs and passwords on all of them, you can have not only
do they have the same user password, but you have centralized administration so you can have your support
staff and managers managing the access of these individuals from a single spot.
You can enable them to log in, disable them to log in.
There's not this multitude of administrator portals that your support team has to deal with.
And I just mentioned the users themselves.
If you have systems with their own logins, you know, they end up having six, eight, 10 different
login and passwords or they end up reusing the same user and password, which is not a secure thing
either.
So having this single sign on ability, one of the benefits that Azure ID can do and if you code this
properly, is once they've signed into one system using their RDM password, the second time they go
to a second system, they're already validated with Azure ad and they don't have to even provide their
user the password a second time so that infrastructure is going to be there.
And finally, there's the integration with other services.
So we haven't really talked about how Azure ad integrates within the Azure portal, but there's a lot
of other services, including SQL database and storage and virtual machines even that you can use Azure
ad to grant people access to.
And so in the combination of your own systems plus Azure systems also support, that can be a killer
feature, if you will.
