So I switched over to one of my other test domains here.
This one has a strange name, super, super duper heroes.
Now, when I created this tenent, Microsoft assigned me a domain name for it that is super, super
duper Harasta on Microsoft dot com.
When I am coding my applications to use this tenent as the identity service, this is going to be a
part of that connection string for me to connect to it, to, you know, verify the identity.
The other implication of this crazy domain name is on the users.
So there is a restriction that users that are part of this have to have their email address as being
part of the domain.
So if I see a new user.
I want to choose Sally, you'll see that I've got no choice, I can't enter.
Sally is not her own email address.
It's going to be Sally at Super Super Duper Heroes at Microsoft dot com.
That's the only choice that I have.
All right, so let's say we want to start using our corporate a domain for this, how do we go about
doing that sort of create Salleh here?
So we go back up to the top level and if we scroll on the settings played here, we can see custom domain
names.
Now, Microsoft is going to allow me to enter any domain name that I want in here.
I see a custom domain name, let's say my company.
Well, I'll tell you, my company is software software architect DOT.
See, that's I own this, right.
So I can add this domain to my account.
Now, you know, Microsoft is not going to just trust that I own software consultancy.
I do have to do some domain registry trick in order to verify it.
So there's a thing called Etext record that goes in your domain registry and you give it the specific
values.
And if you can go into your registry, whether it's GoDaddy, name cheap, whatever company does your
domain names, then you enter this and at some point you can come back, verify it, and then Microsoft
will say, yes, you are authorized to manage this domain.
Right without it.
If I go back to the domains I see, it's unverified if I go back to the users.
So I want to add, Tony.
Software architect is not part of the choices until it's verified, so we see that adding a custom domain
is actually quite simple, but the trick is proving that you have control over it and that's done using
the domain name system at your domain registrar.
