Now, we've seen that we can create users for our active directory right now, these are all member
users I can go into.
Let's say Sally is, in fact one of our I.T. specialists and I want to make her an administrator.
So I go into Sally and I see under assigned roles.
I can see she has no rules assignment now, we haven't yet talked about how authentication works within
Asia, that's called role based access control.
But for the purpose of this demonstration, I'm going to give her a role so I can say at assignment.
And I want Sally to be a security administrator so I can look for the role, I can say security administrator,
you'll see a bit of a description that says can read security information and reports and manage configuration
in Azhari and Office 365.
So this is basically the ability to look at security reports and manage anything within the Azure ad
section.
So I'm elevating Sally's role to this now.
Next time she logs in, she can log into the Azure portal and she can manage this active directory,
this super, super duper heroes, because I've now granted her access.
Now, the problem, of course, is once I've given Sally this access, well, if she was to ever get
hacked, it would be a major security problem.
She has administrative level access to my authentication system.
She can create users.
She can grant privileges that don't people don't belong to.
So we have to then take a step to protect Sally's account.
That's a little bit tougher than a regular member's account.
So John Doe's account doesn't necessarily need to be protected to the same level that is.
So there's a couple of ways to do this.
Let's go back to the Ayyad Tenent animes.
Scroll down on this overview screen here and we can see a couple of services here.
One is called Privileged Identity Management.
Now, it's my understanding this is not actually covered by the exam.
So we could go into privacy, identity management, and this will help us to manage the access to our
privileged users.
And Sally is clearly a privileged user.
And so we can basically activate Just-In-Time access to some monitoring, reporting, things like that.
But what I actually want to do is called identity protection.
Now, the thing about identity protection is you do need a premium account in order to use this feature.
And I'm going to upgrade to a premium account just to demonstrate this to you.
But first, what is it?
So this allows you to create various policies that then Azure ad is going to enforce in order to protect
the risks that it identifies.
And it's not just limited to privileged users can be any user.
So we go into user risk policy and we can choose which category of users are going to be covered.
All users, you know, financial group, the accountants, the administrators.
And at what risk level do we care about whether it's a low risk or high risk or a medium risk?
And what do we want to do when that person trips over those conditions?
Right.
So there's user risk.
They're signing a risk.
And then whether we're going to force people to register for multifactor authentication, which we'll
talk about in this course as well.
So I'm going to go here and upgrade to a premium free trial for this, a super, super duper heroes
account.
And then it's basically going to ex it'll be active for thirty days.
And it's going to remind me after the thirty days that I need to upgrade and if I don't upgrade, it's
going to automatically go back down to a free aid account.
So I'm going to end this video and in the next video will sign up for this pizza so that we can see
some of these features.
