Now in this section more to talk about Microsoft's server lists options.
Now the service options include things such as the service fabric Azure functions and logic apps.
And of course there is database Service database options as well.
But before we get too deep into that let's just break down the various computing options and where they
fit within the overall Azure map.
If we go into the marketplace we look at the compute tab.
We can see the sort of the first three things that are being offered to us are what is called infrastructure
as a service.
So we can fire up a Windows server a Red Hat Linux server a bunch of server or other types of Linux
options and then we're gonna basically have full control over those machines.
In the case of a Windows machine we'll have RTP access in case of Linux machines.
We'll have SSA access and once we get into those machines we can basically use them for whatever we
want.
We can install any type of code that the machine supports if the machine doesn't natively support it.
We can install all of the framework items that are required in order to get that test to install it.
So if you choose a ruby application you might need to install the ruby code in order for your ruby scripts
to be run etc. But you'd have the full control of those servers in order to do that.
Not only do you have control of the servers but they are part of your virtual network.
You can put firewall settings either inside of Azure or inside a virtual machine.
You can open ports basically just as if you would have a virtual machine running in your on premises
environment.
You have almost no control over that machine within Azure.
What that means though is you also have the responsibility.
So if you are to install a Windows server and then you are to open up all of the ports and do some fairly
risky things then you could come back that your machine gets hacked and it would be entirely your fault
because you were irresponsible with that so now don't sell with great power comes great responsibility
as they say.
So the infrastructure as a service option is the most powerful gives you the most control but also comes
with the highest level of responsibility on your shoulders in terms of keeping your environment secure
and keeping your code up to date and making sure all the apps that you've installed when there are security
patches are out there.
You go back in and you install the security patches ET.
It's a full on responsibility in terms of protecting these machines from the operating system level
up.
Now Microsoft is going to protect their environment.
They're going to again there's a basic level of denial of service attack protection there's etc. Some
infrastructure options you're not going to have those issues of your physical machines being compromised
when Microsoft is in control of that.
But you do have a responsibility for the virtual machines essentially.
So that's the infrastructure option.
Now if we go over to the Web marketplace we can see the next level up which is platform as a service.
This is the web apps and the app services within Azure.
This is Council web app API app.
They're easy.
There is a function that also runs as platform as a service.
So when you create a function you can choose for it to be server lists or you can choose for it to run
within an app service environment which is the platform as a service so I should say this point there
is no effective difference between a web app an API and a mobile app.
Years ago you could have said that one allows you to do something and one doesn't.
But all three types of apps historically are now called web apps.
Now this is the the web apps are basically allow you to upload your code you have to do a packaging
operation upload your code there's a configuration that you either have to include or do within your
web app manually within the portal and basically it's very much like just giving your code to Microsoft
letting them run it within the context of what you've chosen as your plan and then you can set various
settings just like an eye as you go into I guess and you can basically choose what to enable do you
allow P HP Do you allow java et cetera.
Okay.
So it's just like basically ISIS running in the cloud now you'll notice the other vendors have web app
options so WordPress has one site core has one Drupal and June less so you can basically get this as
a platform as a service offering within Azure.
So Microsoft not the only vendor a platform as a service offerings but you will not find non Microsoft
options on the test.
So if you're studying purely for the test you just need to know that platform as a service are all of
the apps services plus a type of function app function app is a hybrid that can be both server list
for web app.
We should also talk about containers now.
Containers are growing in the last couple of years Microsoft's adding a lot more options.
You've got your Cuban 80s service a full on a case that you can basically fire up a orchestrator and
a bunch of nodes and call it a Cuban and cluster.
You can have a managed cluster or you can manage it yourself.
We also have a container instances which are sort of the quickest way to get containers running.
You just it's like a web app for containers.
You've got other options in the marketplace.
So DC OS is Mrs sphere and docker options etc..
So containers are growing.
They're not there types of platforms as a service because you're just basically you're firing up a container
and then you're putting code but when you're creating a Cuban 80s cluster then you have you're basically
quit pretty tight control of those servers how many got created whether you want to turn went on turn
went off etc..
So there is a level of control when you're creating clusters so finally let's talk about server lists
as the final option.
Now we've already said that functions do count as server lists if you configure them as server was the
other types of things are logic apps and service.
So if I go let's see
if I can just go back to everything but you calculate everything so we load up a function app we can
see Microsoft puts that in the web category but I'm going to go in and create a function out to demonstrate
that happening.
So call it new function app.
Now you can see that this name is universal because it is fully qualified as your Web site dot net.
So I'm going to put my signature first five letters you choose your own first five letters of course.
Now when we get down to the hosting plan this is what makes it either server lists which is the consumption
plan or a web app which which falls into an app service plan so the choice of consumption or app service
plan is the determining factor between whether something server lists or platform as a service.
Why don't we go in the next video and create ourselves a function.
