So let's create our first surplus app and we're gonna use this the function app to do this.
So when I say create now as we saw in the last video you have to give the app unique name.
I'm going to call it is it a street d new function.
Can I use the A's illustrate these as my unique beginning that way I never get into any kind of conflicts
with other users so you are all of this is going to end up being this word plus dot Azure Web sites
dot net.
Now you can sign your own custom domain.
We're going to cover that in this video but basically you create your own custom domain and have that
domain either domain that response for functions we're going to use my existing subscription I'm also
going to create this new resource group again resource groups makes it easy to not only track costs
but also to clean up resources once you're done using them we have the choice between Windows operating
system and Linux.
So even though this is a server list option and we don't have direct access to the underlying operating
system using Windows versus Linux is gonna give us different options for languages that are supported
but we're going to leave it as as a Windows option.
Now we said the server list what makes something server lists is that you're basically paying for consumption
as opposed to having a service plan.
So the service plan is basically the traditional web app model the application platform as a service
in the app service plan model you're basically going to choose a server size is going to have different
features but if you're basically on the free plan or the paid plan basic and advanced etc. On the consumption
model we have it's a different pricing entirely so I'm going to pull in the pricing screen here and
we can see that it's a combination of the amount of time which is called execution time and the quantity
of executions every as a function of top level a function has a free limit.
So as long as you're less than four hundred thousand gigabytes seconds in terms of time and under 1
million executions both then it's going to cost you anything to have at your functions.
This is what makes Azure functions really good for code that is not frequently run because then you
end up being under the Free Level and basically not having to pay for it.
So you can have code in the cloud that doesn't cost you anything above the free level of four hundred
thousand gigabytes seconds of one million executions.
You're going to basically be paying a fraction of a cent basically one thousandth of a cent per gigabyte
Second and 20 cents per million executions.
So basically you can do some analysis over how frequently your code is going to run and how much time
it takes.
Go back to the silver on the consumption plan.
We're going to run this in the central U.S. We said that the operating system that you choose does determine
your options so we can run this in the dot net stack a javascript stack or does support a Java option.
If we switch over to the Linux we have the choice between Dalton and stuck in JavaScript stack so we
don't have the Java preview and we can obviously have a docker a docker container as our function as
a Linux so go back to Windows consumption plan done and stack issues to JavaScript stack and basically
functions need a storage account to operate in.
So once you've created functions there is a UI within Azure in which you create the code and you can
test the code but that code needs to be stored.
It's going to be stored in a storage account.
You're also going to have logs and other other things that are stored.
So the storage account is going to need to be created or or reused.
I recommend creating a new one for your functions.
We can turn on application insights again.
Remember we haven't dived into that in this course yet but application insights is a way for the code
to surface problems that are happening inside the code to Azure top level.
There's an application insights a dashboard view that you can actually go in and you can see how events
are happening within your code and if you're going to use application insights it needs to be created
into a location to turn that off.
So we're going to create this brand new function running on JavaScript in the consumption plan which
is a service model and when we come back we're going to look inside what we've created.
