All right so our function deployments succeeded.
You can see here that it took only a minute and a half to create this function.
If we go back we can see that we have the function itself and there wasn't app service playing created
for this.
Now this can be a bit surprising we chose the consumption plan we did not choose an app service plan.
But if we go into the set the apps service plan we can see that it says that it's a consumption pricing
model and we do not have access to scale up scale out or to patrol the networking of this or anything
like that.
So this is an app service plan.
But really we don't have any control over it.
So if we go back to the resource group we can go into the function.
Now the function has been created and if we go into functions we can see that there.
There actually is nothing been created inside of the function yet.
So the function in this instance is just a container.
And then we create one or more functions inside of this container.
OK.
And again we've set this you are allies a is that a new function to agile sets up net so any function
that we create inside of this container is going to be coming off of that.
You are out.
So let's create our first function so going to put the plus sign here.
Now functions one of the great things about them is that there's a wizard type interface for you to
create functions.
So you can basically create a function using Visual Studio code you can create the function using it
on a notepad or some type of text editor and then deploy it into this function or we can use a portal
interface to create and modify our functions.
So going to choose the portal interface Microsoft provides a number of templates.
Now the most popular ones are basically web hook which means that someone external can call this.
Eat this you are all that we're going to create and that will be the trigger that will cause the function
to run or we can create a function that runs on a timer like every hour every 30 minutes every day etc.
Then there are other templates.
So let's go and see the more templates.
OK now we're in.
Burn the Quick Start model here.
There is also of course we can create a blank function and then start to create our own triggers and
connect with various components ourselves.
What we can see that basically Microsoft providing a number of predefined templates we have the Web
quickly on the timer.
You can also have a triggered off of an entry into the Azure queue.
We can have a triggered off of a service plus queue.
We can have it triggered off a topic or a blob storage account.
So if a new file gets added to a bluff storage account that causes the function to run a database entry
an e when an email has been added into a send grid queue IO T have.
So there are a number of things that can happen that will trigger a function.
Let's create the HP trigger given a name called new function one and basically we need to know whether
the function can be run anonymously which means there's no authentication required.
Whether we're going to create function level keys or whether we need it to have admin level.
So let's leave it as an anonymous function.
We do.
We don't mind if the outside world calls this function without security.
Now when we create this it should be triggered function remember we chose us the javascript when we
were creating it.
We can see here javascript code and the javascript code is going to be triggered again off of the in
a should it be call.
And then when the ETP is called it's going to look at the request either the query string or in case
of a post it's going to look into the body of the request get a parameter called name and then it's
going to say hello name so if I was to test this I got to open up the test interface and that means
I have to scroll over a little bit here you'll see here that it's providing me a post request by default
and I can pass in the name of azure.
I'm going to change this to Scott and that's where the output will go.
So if I said scroll down here run it's basically executed it passed in this parameter of named Scott.
And the code inside the function Rand saying hello Scott.
Okay let's close out this test.
Go into our function here.
Now what if we wanted to test this another way.
Right.
So let's go into the integration section.
Remember we said that the trigger is based off an ace TTP and then the output is going to be issued
as well
we don't.
We have it enabled and we even though there are keys ft keys are not required because this is a anonymous
function.
When we created it is anonymous function.
So let's go to get function you are all going to copy this euro
then I'm going to put my browser in here and we're going to say remember we had name equals and I'm
going to see why o you has the name the request.
The response comes back that says hello you.
So we have a function that is accessible over a euro.
It's the basic URL for the function app slash API slash the functioning and then we're able to pass
in parameters either as a query stream or as a post request.
Now all of this is based on the code.
So if we close this up we go back here we can see that this default code that came with it has this
hello and the name as part of it.
If we didn't pass the name it would give us a 400 error and say Please pass a name onto the query string
or in the request body.
So we switch back to this and we we were to remove the name or expecting the error please pass on the
end to the pre string so you can see the function started to take shape here.
This is the default code but we can then start to write our own code what do we want to happen when
the function executes now.
Typically just having it interpret the request parameters and then spit back Hello or spit back like
if it was a calculator function and I took in two numbers and it did the mathematical addition onto
them and then returned the result.
That's not entirely useful right.
Having a function that is self-contained can do its work and then return the result has some funk has
some usefulness to it but it's not usually entirely useful.
So the great power of functions is by having it basically be able to integrate with other parts of Azure.
So even though the function is triggered by an issue you request we can basically have a go to a storage
account go to a queue.
Let's look at the integration options.
Blob storage table storage Excel table Cosmos D.B. one drive
and these are the sort of the integrations that we can have on input and what that means is even though
the HP request came in we can have it go to a blob storage account and read a file that is contained
within blob storage.
So that is a.
And even though the triggers on a P we can basically have a do something to get some information when
we go to the outputs side of things.
Again we can have it do something other than return a result.
So in terms of the output we can have it up insert a record into a Q save a file into blob storage insert
a record into the service bus send an e mail send an S M S with Twilio save a file into one drive send
an email with Outlook write to a database entry with Cosmos DV So there are a number of these are the
built in options by the way.
So this is basically the template ID options.
So I'm going to choose blob storage.
Scroll down and I'm going to say select
now.
It says this integration requires the following extensions.
So we need to install this extension into our function in order for this trigger.
For this blob storage account to be accessible within the function.
So in the same stall and it's happening in the background.
Now remember this is we have a storage account attached to this.
So some of this is going to be updating the configuration file etc. The output blob is gonna be called
output block.
So if I'm going to create a new output blob this is what I'm going to refer to it as it's going to put
this into a container with a random gooey idea as its name.
There is a storage account connection.
So this is a pre-existing storage account connection I can create a new storage account and a new connection.
If I wanted this to go into a different place and save on that
OK so if we go back to our function we have our javascript here.
Then this means that we can start acting on our output blob.
We have output blob as an accessible property and then we can basically say create our output blob with
the following contents
so we've got our output blob.
That was the output binding figure back into the integration tab.
We can see that under outputs we have an Azure blob storage output in the blob is named output.
So output blob is access using context up bindings so output.
And let's just say we're going to put the hello Scott into that output blob.
So when whenever you call this a go back into the test and I'm going to scroll over here.
It says Hello I'm gonna change this to to Bob let's go down and run it scroll back we can see that the
console shows that it ran executed.
The output says hello Bob but did the blob that get created the output blob.
So it's going to back into the function it's going to the storage account go into gloves.
Now we have this out container that was part of our setup and now we have a blob that this time stamp
on it and it's select it
and I'm going to download that log into my local machine here and we can see that this blob that I downloaded
I opened it up in a text editor.
It says Hello Bob.
And that is our function that created this blob that sits inside of this storage account.
So in this video we successfully not only created a function but javascript function we actually tied
it to a blob account storage account and basically were able to write to that storage account and get
that function to do some storage within Azure.
