So when you go into your logic out for the first time you're brought directly into the logic of the
designer.
This isn't the normal view when you actually do have a logic out but your printer is starting off on
this kind of screen.
There is a video you can watch if you want but in this case we're going to scroll down.
Now we're given a selection of what's called common triggers trigger is an action an event that happens
that causes the logic app to run.
So all logic apps need one trigger that's going to cause it to kick off just like a function really.
We can see an example of the common triggers that include the usual suspects like recurrence which is
a time based or inch and a message in a service plus q an event grid.
But now we also have third party services like Twitter and Dropbox and things like that which we can
create for triggers.
Let's go down we can see that there's a number of templates and we can choose based on category if we
want social media templates and things like that slack tweets and Instagram and MailChimp.
But let's create a blank logic app and that'll show us exactly all the options that we have so a blank
logic app we're still in the designer here.
Now we have to choose a trigger.
So what is going to cause this logic app to fire like go down here we can see that there are just dozens
and dozens of triggers some really interesting external companies like go to a webinar get hub and hip
chat and visual SOPs and stuff like that so it's a really flexible interface that actually reminds me
of ze here or I FTT.
If this then that so it allows you to connect many of these services into functions and other applications
within Azure let's do an H UDP request sort of the simplest one.
So when an HP request is received we want to do something now.
The URL is going to be generated.
Once we had c I'm going to open the advanced options.
I'm going to say that this is a get request that's going to come in and we could give it a path and
this path is basically going to allow us to define like a rest api so we can say slash API or just API
slash customer I.D. or pain in curly braces.
And so in this format I've just defined a parameter for this you or else so whatever the you are all
is that's going to get generated it's going to have slash API and slash some type of number that's going
to come in and that's going to be our trigger for this Logica.
I'm going to click the bar to minimize this.
And now we have to choose a step.
OK now we can choose interesting stuff not just directly connected with other services like Dropbox
or MailChimp but we could actually put some type of if statement in the middle so we can see there's
a condition that can do looping or a switch statement.
I'm going to choose the condition now our condition in this case I want to check the customer I.D. So
when I click on this value I'm given a number of options.
But the customer I.D. that I added as a parameter is a path parameter is an option in the dynamic options.
I want to see if customer I.D. is equal to one then I'm going to do something I'm going to go into the
true statement you'll see that we've got a branching condition here.
True or false for this condition I'm going to connect to Dropbox.
Now I already have my dropbox connected but if you don't we will ask you to log into Dropbox and give
Microsoft Azure permissions and we're going to create a file if the customer data is one I'm going to
go into my my dropbox here Dropbox is what's with the arrow I'm going to go in to get these are the
folders of my dropbox and go into your stuff and we have to give it a name this customer I.D. can actually
be used as part of the name so I can see customer I.D. Dot T X T.
Now what's the contents of the file the contents of the file could be anything that's passed in from
the Web you're also let's say there's a body a schema for the body where we upload data into more of
a POST request but this is a GET request let's just leave it as this is Customer number and then I'm
going to put the customer I.D. into the body of the of the file and this is a bit of an arbitrary
thing that we're creating here.
So this is going to create a file in my Dropbox in the course stuff directory with a customer I text
where this is this is customer number one now if it's false perhaps I don't want to create the dropbox
file perhaps I just want to let's look for the response
look for the response action and we're going to see that the status code is four hundred and we're gonna
say sorry we're not interested
in this case I can put the response code two hundred and say yes.
Awesome you are great.
Right.
So we're doing different options based on the value of the customer I.D. being passed so you can see
that you can start to create some fairly elaborate logic apps which are basically got looping and if
then statements connect to outside services connect to inside services SQL Server SQL databases blobs
and sort of you can create basic programming in here.
Another another thing that can happen of course is with functions one of the popular things that we
can do is to connect our logic app into a function that we created.
So Azure functions is an action that we can choose within logic apps.
We can choose one of our functions.
You can see either create an
one
so we can basically execute a function if we have them as part of our logic happiness a very popular
thing to do and I'm gonna leave that for now.
So let's see this thing as a reminder we are calling an API.
Here's the you are out and we're expecting a slash API slash customer.
And if that customer ends up being the number one then we're gonna create a dropbox file.
Otherwise you're going to return an error.
So I can actually go into my browser here.
I'm going to paste in the you are all you can see that it's got a spot for the customer I.D. let's put
the number two to two in there and hit enter and you'll see that the number two to two resulted in sorry
we're not interested.
Exactly what we expected but change the 2 to 2 to a 1 then it returns a yes.
Awesome you are great.
And if I go into my dropbox I can see one dot text was created and the file that I open says this is
customer number one.
So our logic app basically allows us to do some more sophisticated programming in a server list fashion.
Notice that we're not actually developing a visual studio or not uploading code we're actually using
code that's embedded within the browser within Microsoft Azure.
There's some visual elements in terms of the logic app designer here where we can sort of see how apps
get created.
We wanted to switch over and look at the Jason File it from more comfortable looking at a more sophisticated
things we can see the Jason File and perhaps we can even modify.
Now I don't want it to say 400 I want to see for one and that would basically allow us to modify the
Logica in code as well it's within design logic apps can be fairly sophisticated workflows similar to
the Windows Workflow service so and project logic apps are very useful things that within the service
environment.
