 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at custom V.P. seas and 
 Elastic Load balances. 
 Now I appreciate we've been putting off covering Elastic Load balances we're going to cover that off 
 in the high availability section of the course and the very next section of the course. 
 However because we have our our VPC configured the way it is right now I wanted to show you something 
 quickly. 
 Okay so here I am in the AWOL console and what we're going to do. 
 We're not actually going to provision a load balancer but we're going to have a look at what we can 
 do so I'm gonna go into easy E2 and then I'm just going to go over to load balancing which is down here 
 and I'm going to go ahead and create a load balancer and you get three different types of load balances 
 you get your application load balancers network load balances and your classic load balances and we're 
 gonna do a deep dive on the differences between the three in the next section of the course. 
 For now let's just go ahead and create an application load balancer. 
 Now in here we can give it a name so call it my Alby. 
 I'm not actually gonna go ahead and create it in here you've got your scheme so you can either have 
 this as Internet facing or as internal and you can do your address type so IPTV 4 or dual stack sort 
 supports HPV 4 and HPV 6. 
 I'm just gonna do it as IP V for if we scroll down. 
 We got our different Availability Zones in here. 
 Now if we go over to our custom VPC you'll be able to see that we've got us e to A and us e to be. 
 Now if I click in to be straight away it's going to give me a warning message saying you're creating 
 an Internet facing load balancer but there's no internet gateway attached to these subnets you have 
 selected. 
 So it's basically saying this isn't gonna work if we click in here and we go ahead and hit next straightaway 
 you're going to see this error message saying at least two subnets must be specified. 
 So this is an important exam tip going into your exams you have to remember that when you provisioning 
 a load balancer you're going to need at least two public subnets. 
 So you need at least two public subnets in order to create a load balancer. 
 So that's really important to remember going into your exam. 
 And like I said we're going to cover off load balances in a lot more detail in the next section of the 
 course. 
 I'm not going to create this just yet. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and hit cancel. 
 So that is it for this lecture in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and look at VPC flow logs 
 if you've got any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move onto the next lecture. 
 Thank you.