 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay hello bloggers and welcome to this lecture. 
 This is a really quick dear radical lecture on direct connect. 
 So what is Direct Connect or Direct Connect is basically a cloud service solution that makes it easy 
 to establish a dedicated network connection from your premises to of us and using an obvious direct 
 connect you can establish a private connectivity between AWB and your data center or your office or 
 a key location environment which in many cases can reduce your network costs increase bandwidth throughput 
 and provide a more consistent network experience than Internet based connection. 
 So essentially it is a direct connection in to AWB as it's done on dedicated lines and this is a very 
 simple diagram. 
 Let's have a look at it in a more complicated setting. 
 So we've got our NWS region and inside we have our AWB public services so this could be things like 
 S3 for example and then we've also got our VPC and this could be a private VPC. 
 Then we have our direct connects locations and these are spread all over the world. 
 And then essentially we have our customer environments so this could be our own data centre and inside 
 our Direct Connect location we have a cage which is dedicated to AWB us and inside that cage we have 
 direct connect routers and then inside that location where our customer will also have to have their 
 own cage. 
 Well you could use an AWB as partners cage and inside that cage they're going to have their own customer 
 routers as well or a partner router as well. 
 And then what happens is is you've got your router over here inside your own data centre and then you're 
 going to basically have a link a dedicated link from your data center and AWB have their own backbone 
 network as well. 
 And from their backbone network they're connecting their direct connect routers through a direct connect 
 connection and then we have what's called a cross connect. 
 And this is essentially a network cable that's connecting our Direct Connect routers to our customer 
 or our partner routers. 
 And then we have our own basically our own dedicated links so this is our last mile extension so this 
 could be NPL circuit or dedicated line et cetera. 
 And what happens is is we run a connection from our own data center all the way up through our customer 
 or partner routers that then cross connects into the direct connect routers and then then has a dedicated 
 connection to the AWB as public services. 
 So this could be things like S3 and then we also get a dedicated connection into our VPC. 
 So this isn't traversing the Internet at all it's a direct connect connection through a dedicated line 
 into our own cage or into a partners cage through a cross connect and then into the direct connect routers 
 which then goes over the AWOL backbone network into AWB. 
 So that's all direct connect is it is pretty simple and all you need to really understand what it is 
 going into the exam is that basically what Direct Connect actually is. 
 So it's a direct connect connection into AWB data centres and it's useful for high throughput workloads 
 so if you've got really high volumes of network traffic you probably do want to use direct connect and 
 it's also useful if you need a stable and reliable and secure connection. 
 So going into your exam just remember what Direct Connect is at a high level. 
 And if you've got a scenario based question where you're trying to do a VPN connection that keeps dropping 
 out because the amount of throughput and what kinds of things could you do to solve that will go ahead 
 and use direct connect. 
 So that is it for this lecture goes if you have any questions please let me know if not feel free to 
 move on to the next lecture.