Now, the most popular container format in the world and the one that we deal with, with Azure is called
Docker.
So even though you're using something like Cuber Nettie's as the orchestration platform, hosting the
container images, what you are using is the tool called Docker to create the images.
Now, Docker does have applications for all the different operating systems that you can install on
your developer workstation.
There is some special things to do if you're running Windows 10 home.
Now, it used to be you had to go to a legacy version of Docker, but now Docker does support Windows
10 home.
In fact, it uses the Linux subsystem.
So you're going to have to install the Windows subsystem for Linux in order to get Docker to run.
So this is relatively new, but basically you're running a Docker Linux on your Windows home in order
to get that to work.
So this is one way to get Docker images.
Now, Visual Studio actually has Docker support.
So if I have this app, like we we just created this, a simple app that that says, welcome, Scott,
I believe because I modified it.
We can't publish this as a Doctor Docker image.
The way that you do that is through the Azure Azure Container Registry.
And we'll talk about that in a second.
But before we can publish something as a docker image to the container registry, we have to enable
a basically docker support.
So we go under.
Hopefully you can see this, the solution in Solution Explorer, we say right, click and say add and
we see Docker support in order to get this files.
Now, Docker does require basically some files in order to indicate that this is a docker image.
You can also enable Docker support when you're creating the project.
So there is a doctor support checkbox.
You decide if you're going to deploy this to a Linux or Windows Docker container.
Now, even though that is done, a core is cross platform, you do get to choose the platform.
And I say, OK, and now we can see that a Docker file has been added to the project.
And there are some container items that have been added to the project file.
Now it's popped up here and says that the doctor desktop is a prerequisite.
So in order to enable Docker support, we have to go back to the the Docker hub that we were just looking
at and download that and install it.
So I'm just going to say yes to that and let it do its thing.
Now, remember, I said that in order to get this working on Windows 10 home, I do have to get the
Windows substate system for Linux.
There is some involvement in order to get that, you actually end up installing Linux and you have to
choose a distro and everything.
So exciting to do that.
Doing the install.
So I let that install, I've restarted my computer and now it's asking me to go and install the Linux
kernel for the Windows subsystem for Linux.
And so I follow this link and it takes me to here.
This is where I have to download the latest kernel and install it, then restart again.
And I will hopefully have a docker installed on my local machine.
All right, so I've rebooted I've installed everything I now have Docker's, sort of my local machine.
I started a visual studio, I opened the project and I get this pop up that says your doctor, basically
the doctor have installed his targeting Linux and my app is targeting Windows.
And so I'm going to need to either switch Docker to target windows or switch my app to target Linux
in order to run this, you know, runs on my local I mean, one of the classic blunders, I guess so
other than starting a land war in Asia.
And let me know if you get that movie reference, installing the targeting windows for your doctor when
your local system runs Linux would be one of those ones.
So I'm not going to switch over to Windows.
What I will do is I will switch the project to Linux.
So I'm just going to go into the project.
Right.
Click and go back to Docker support and switch this to Linux operating system.
And I'm going to say, yes, we want to redo that.
And now our Docker default is now a Linux.
So we should be able to, you know, package this now as a Docker image, the next step of this is going
to be to publish this image into our container registry.
And so in the next video, we're going to set up our container registry and publish our first image
to it.
