Now, before we can just deploy this to an azure container instance or an azure Web webapp, we do need
to talk about access.
If I go into the Access Keys section, we can see that there's the registry name, which we know, and
the server, which we also know.
But we do need to enable access.
This access is going to allow us to basically use this container using an administrative use, writing
and password.
So I'm going to say enable and you'll see that it's giving me the user name and a couple of randomly
generated passwords.
Now, don't worry, this container will be deleted by the time that you see this video.
So it's not going to be an issue to just show it.
But you can see here that I'm giving two passwords and the ability to regenerate those passwords, very
reminiscent of a storage account and the way that these passwords are sort of like master access.
So I've enabled the admin user and a copy one of the passwords.
I'll see if I if I need it.
Now it go under the greater resource and we're going to get a container instance.
Remember we said that the container instances are the fastest and quickest ways to get a container in
Azure.
So we're going to create a container instance.
I'm going to choose the I'm going to put it into the ACR group just alongside of it, the container.
It's going to need a name just like any kind of app.
So container test.
In choosing the image source, we're going to choose the Azure Container Registry and we can actually
see it.
We've only got one registry, we've only got one image, we've only got one tag.
So pretty easy.
It's already fill it in for me.
I should point out that if you wanted to play with container instances, but you didn't want to go through
that last couple of videos, downloading Docker, publishing your own images, you could use the QuickStart
images.
And so the QuickStart images sort of give you some really basic hello world options and Genex and even
the nano server, which is a server running in a container so we could deploy a hello world if we wanted
to.
But I'm going to use my brand new ACR image.
It isn't Linux image.
We built it that way.
So it's going to be a Linux container and we can see that it's giving me a very simple one CPU, one
point five gigabyte of memory server.
We don't need anything really complicated because it's just, you know, welcome, Scott.
If we click on the change size, we can choose up to four CPU's, we can choose up to 16 gig of memory.
And this is a pretty feature.
But if we wanted graphical processing, we could do that.
Remember, the al-Qaida azure container instance is very simplified and it doesn't have the ability
to scale.
It's not really designed to run, let's say, your corporate website that could have thousands of visitors
at one time.
This is really just for demonstration testing.
I'm sure it's used for real production situations, but it's it's not the complex situations or the
the powerful ones.
So for CPU's is the limit.
Sixteen gigs of memory.
Again, we could create public and private IP addresses, we could give the IP address of any names.
So this will be fully qualified.
I went to that port 80 open by default.
What's going to happen to the container when something needs to be restarted?
Well, it restarts on failure.
It restarts always, no matter how it stopped, etc. So we can just leave those with the defaults,
skip over the tags and see review.
So this should take the image that we just published and turn it into a real app that we can visit on
the Web.
OK, so I'm going to hit creates.
I should see it's the quickest, fastest, easiest way to deploy a container, so let's see how long
it takes.
All right, the deployment is complete if I go into operation details, I can see that to create and
deploy the image took 41 seconds.
Pretty impressive.
You can get your app from your desktop into Azure.
And if I didn't do this using the portal and I did it directly from my desktop in under a minute running
in the cloud, so go Microsoft, I would say go to resource.
We can see that the container has been a sea container has been set up.
We can peer into it and we can see that my A-Z SJT container test has been created and is running.
Now it has an IP address, we didn't give it a fully qualified domain name when we set this up, but
we did give it an IP address.
And if I paste that into a browser window, I get welcome, Scott.
So this is now running in a Linux container in Azure using AICI, not a Web app.
So you can see how easy that was to deploy.
Right.
So we didn't have to deal.
Even Web apps are a little bit more complicated in setting it up.
But in terms of just pointing it to the ACR image boom deployed, that's pretty cool.
