So let's compare what we just experienced with doing this to a webapp container.
I'm going to say and I'm going to say webapp.
We're going to put it into the same resource group, give it a name Web app, container test.
And where to choose Docker container, it is a Linux container, we can place it into the central U.S.
going to create a brand new plan.
I don't like that it's choosing premium as the default, but I guess that was my last.
Like how premium is the only recommendation here?
Go back down to standard, and next up, we're going to choose what we're deploying.
So, again, we're choosing a single single container.
We have the choice between the QuickStart ACR Docker hub or some other registry URL that that might
be hosted locally or whatever, choose ACR.
And these have got only one option for HCR, for the image and for the for the tank I could pass in
the command to get this started.
Now, we're not going to install application sites and it's not supported for container on Linux.
Skip over the tags and we're just going to get right into reviewing it.
So now we're going to be able to see the comparison between an API deployment and a Web app deployment
right off the bat here.
So I'm going to say create.
So we're going to the deployment is succeeded.
Open up deployment details, we can see that there were two elements to creating this.
There's the service plan, of course, and the app.
So the service plan took a minute itself made in 12 and the app itself took them in the half.
So basically three minutes to deploy a Web app.
Now comparing 40 seconds and three minutes, it's a marginal difference.
But if you are dealing with performance concerns where you're trying to get stuff out as quickly as
possible, the difference could be important, especially we'll talk in a second about a case where
he uses a C.I. containers to burst performance.
So if you have six X nodes and you want to add two more AC nodes, that 40 seconds is very critical.
So we saw about two minutes and 45 seconds to deploy to the Web app.
We have the you are all for that, which I can click on and it says, Welcome, Scott.
We can already see that it's quicker to start up.
It was running right away.
Again, a web apps do have slightly more features.
There is a it's more of a developer friendly situation.
We have the concept of backups.
We have scaling features.
A lot of these things that ECI doesn't have, but not quite as complicated as success would be.
So there's some definitely some benefits.
And maybe it's a familiar metaphor if you're using Web apps for other things.
