So we've seen how to deploy an image to contain for instance, we've deployed it to an app service,
let's move further up the chain and go right into Azure Cooper Nettie's.
Now, there are other container services with an azure such as service fabric, but service fabric is
not on the exam and we're not really going to dive into it here.
So I'm going to say add new and run off the topic and see who service.
We can even go into the containers category and we'll see communities there as well.
Now, like I said, Cooper Nettie's has more of a it's based on virtual machines and virtual machine
scale sets.
There's multiple servers involved.
So we're going to go through this.
It's going to be a bit more complicated than the simplified views we've been looking at so far.
So I'm going to put this cluster into the same resource group.
I have to give the cluster a name, a case and location.
I'll just keep their default.
If I did care about the version, I'll just stick with the default.
Carbone's version now, right off the top, we can see this concept of a node pool.
Now the pool is going to be the servers that are going to do the work.
And by default, I'm setting myself up here for DS to virtual machines and there's going to be three
of them.
So if I say change size here, I can see that the D2 virtual machine is one hundred dollars a month
and I just signed myself up for three of them.
The other aspect of this is on some accounts you're going to have CPU restrictions on your subscription.
And, you know, if you got three servers and they're taking to each, that's six of your of your CPU
is if you've got a limit of 10, for instance, it's going to be you're going to found some issues here.
So I'm going to stick with this default.
Maybe I'll put that down to two just for to be safe.
The next concept.
So we've got the node pools as being a cluster of servers.
Now you can have multiple node pools.
So I have to D2 servers.
I can create another pool that contains a different number, say four for servers, etc. So a single
akehurst cluster can contain multiple pools.
Remember I said that azure container instances can be used what's called virtual nodes and this is basically
allowing you to scale.
It's called BASTABLE scaling in Engin under a minute.
If we had our two nodes and we needed to scale pretty quickly, we could scale into AICI instead of
having to start up another virtual machine doing the instantiation of that, which could take several
minutes by default.
It's going to be set up.
These two VMS is going to be set up into a scale set.
And if I wanted to not use the skill set metaphor, I can just go straight to only VMS.
I'm just going to leave the default there.
Now, authentication, the cluster is going to have to run under some identity.
We talked about manage identity previous in this course.
For some reason, the service principle is the default.
We're going to switch over to system assigned identity.
We don't need to be managing our own identity.
We can see here we can sign up this man's identity for role based access control so we can assign permissions
to this system identity using that, or do we want Azure Active Directory to be managed by X?
And I'll see a note that it is encrypted by default.
The only other choice you have is to take over the encryption key, just like with a storage account.
I'm going to stick with the default settings, of course, virtual machines and virtual machine skill
sets have to run on a network, and so it's going to set up a basic network configuration and we're
going to have to set up a primary public IP address that's going to have a DNS entry, has a load balancer,
a bunch of network related questions.
Now we intend to run a source, a kiss runs with containers, and we do intend to link this to a container
registry.
So if we don't do it now before we can start to use this cluster with ACR, we would have to basically
set up that there's an attachment metaphor for this.
So I'm going to attach this to my ACR now instead of I don't have to do it later.
The one thing to note right now is I am not choosing which image to deploy.
So once I get this Carbonetti cluster going, it's going to end up empty and then I'm going to have
to deploy my image as a separate step.
So there's no image selection, as you would with the Web app at this moment.
There's a bunch of monitoring I'm going to turn off monitoring for now.
This is just a demo tagging.
I can see a review and create.
And so when I hit the button, we're going to start up a virtual machine skill set with two VMS that
are doing the work using the Carbonetti, as I've defined it here.
So I'm going to hit the reset button and we'll get our first Carbonetti cluster started.
