So in the last section we saw how we were using table storage within an Azure storage account as a very
simple and easy way to sort of get up and running create us to create a table store some data into it.
Even Microsoft recommends a better table experience perhaps an enterprise grade table experience using
Cosmos D.B..
So in this section we're going to be talking about Cosmos D.B. as a alternative to using a storage account.
Now Cosmo's D.B. is was recently added within the last couple of years with an Azure and is meant to
be an IT guy as the name implies built from the ground up for global distribution and the ability to
scale to a very large number of transactions per second etc..
So if you're developing an application let's say developing a mobile app and you're thinking that you're
going to have tens of thousands one hundreds of thousands of installs a million installs of your mobile
app you would not build it on an Azure storage account.
You would want to use something like Cosmo's D.B. which is specifically designed and had a certain SLA
as and other guarantees for your data being available not only locally but around the world.
It takes care of a lot of that stuff.
OK so we're gonna create our first Cosmos D.B. account.
It's not entirely straightforward.
Now we recognize this Wizard that is common to creating web apps and creating virtual machines.
We're going to put this in a brand new resource group.
So I'm going to call it a Z cause most D.B.
and we have to create an account.
So we haven't created any databases yet similar to having a storage account that you have to then create
tables for.
This is a database account and we'll have to create the databases separately.
Now this database account is gets to be unique across all of Azure because we can see that it's fully
qualified dot documents dot Azure dot com.
So we're going to be referencing our cosmos D.B. if we're going to be referencing Cosmos D.B. on the
open web we're gonna be using a U or L such as this.
Now we have our first significant decision to make and that is the type of API that the data model that
we're gonna use for our data now.
Cosmos D.B. as we see up here is a multi modal multi model database service.
That means that the scene Cosmos TB can store data in many different ways.
And we get to choose as we're creating this database which way we wanted to store data.
Now these are no sequel databases that means there's no dependencies between tables.
We're not going to create a you know a master table and then a child table and then to a foreign key
from the child table to the master table as you would in a relational database store all of this cosmos
D.B. again there's no relationships that are designed to be built in the.
The consequence of that is it's going to be extremely fast.
You're going to be able to query this data and Microsoft talks about sub 10 millisecond response times
something like five milliseconds in order you know you do a query and the data comes back to you very
very fast response times.
Now you get your choice of API the API you choose dictates the way that the data is stored.
So for instance if you choose the Mongo DP API then the data is gonna be stored using Mongo D.B. even
though there's an s cool option.
That's just the query API.
And again the data stored in no sequel manner.
We also have a table option graph graph is sort of a relationship.
There is relationships and graph modes where you basically have this person is friends with that person.
This person has communicated with that person etc. You can have multiple.
This is more like a social graph than anything.
So just by default we're gonna start with the sequel option.
And again it's a chosen Australia for some reason I'm going to put this into Canada now.
Very interesting.
Again causality be designed.
Even the name implies for a geo redundancy.
So by turning on Geo redundancy it's going to duplicate my data not only in the Kennedy East that I
chose but it's going to put it into Canada Central so built in pairing between two regions.
And in fact there's hundreds of miles and hundreds of kilometres between these two regions within Canada.
So if there's a localized disaster in you know in Montreal region for instance then when it gets into
China region it'll be feel it should be fine.
So I'm going to enable that it's by default and then the other option is do I want to have data that
can be written to multiple regions.
So this is actually like a two way replication where you can write to kind of E and you can write to
kind of central and whether whichever you do that it's going to be replicated properly.
You can see it's disabled by default.
When you start to get into stuff like this you start to get into a little bit more complexity in terms
of your applications having to have their own database homes.
You know maybe there's some type of conflict where the same data gets written into two places within
the same you know second and then some type of data that has to be then data has to be merged intelligently
to try to figure out the differences between the data et cetera.
So having this actually adds a little bit of complexity and the chance of data conflicts now when we
create our Cosmo's D.B. account we have to determine whether or not we want our cosmos D.B. to be global
or to be set on two specific virtual networks.
OK so we can basically say do we want it to be on no virtual network.
Or do we want to create a new virtual network and say only machines applications that are running on
this virtual network will have access to this.
This is a security setting and what we're going to do is just leave it as global for now.
We've talked about Tuck tags when it comes to other other resources.
For instance we can set our environment tag and define whether the tag goes against the entire account
which is what we're creating right now
so we can now create the create button.
Now we can see here that there is some pricing causality bees are not free.
But we're going to pay approximately 27 cents U.S. per gigabyte per month.
And it's also going to be charged based on single region rights to X dollars a month.
Four hundred are use and this is request units per second.
So depending on how hard we're hitting this database we're gonna be charged six dollars for every one
hundred requests units per second.
So over the course of the month hopefully you're not going to use the database more than more than that
but you can see that the cost is basically priced in terms of how often you use it.
So if we hit the create button we're gonna have ourselves a Cosmo's DBA account of when a pause the
video and let that happen.
