So we can see it only took a minute and three seconds for our cosmos D.B. account to be created.
Let's call let's click on the go to resource button.
Now I'll come back to the quick start with go back to the overview for a second.
You can see that we.
Since we enabled the geo replication it's got us in Canada East and Canada Central and the right locations
only in Canada East.
I'm going to minimize this and we can see this cool map kind of shows us where the regions of replication
are.
It's not that difficult to setup additional points of the world where you can replicate your data.
So if you have a database like I said if you have a mobile app that's going to have hundreds of thousands
or millions of installs and you think well it would be good to have my data in North America in South
America in Europe in India in China in Australia.
Then you can certainly set that up.
Now China itself is a you need a separate relationship with the Chinese version of Asia for that but
Japan and other places are certainly accessible to you.
OK.
Now let's go back to the quick start.
We can see here Microsoft is setting us up with we can create some basically dummy data we can create
the items collection and
estimates 3 cents per hour.
I really Bill it's actually pretty cool that it tells us here so we can basically get our collection
going and download a sample app to experiment with it if we wanted to go that route.
Now we're going to go into the collections section so right now we have an account but right now we
don't have any databases nor do we have any collections.
Right.
So we have an account but we don't actually have anything in it.
So there's sort of two layers of data within cosmos to be first of all we're going to have to create
a database and then put a collection inside of it.
So to say add collection
so doing that brings up this ad collection blade and we have a number of values to pass out here.
So first up we have to give the database a name.
Remember there's two levels within the cosmos DBA account.
That is the database and the collections.
You mean multiple collections inside of a single database.
So I'm going to call this main D.B..
This is a very generic name.
Now there is a checkbox right within here where we can basically request a throughput limits on to the
main database.
If I click it it opens up this throughput option at the database level and it sets it at fifty thousand
request units per second.
The big caveat is here putting it at this level it's going to cost us four dollars per hour or ninety
six dollars per day.
Now that's probably going to add up to something like twenty five hundred to three thousand dollars
at the end of the month.
So I do not want to provision that at this level but now that you know going down to the to a collection
level will get down here in a second.
We can see that but it's requesting it's still 20 dollars a day.
So after 30 days it's still around 600 dollars it's still not super cheap.
We can reduce that.
So we've given the database and they main D.B. and we're going to create the Employee table.
OK.
So this is the collection of data that's going to be in the cosmos D.B. now we do need to define a partition
key the partition key similar to storage tables is going to be used by Cosmos D.B. to intelligently
divide this data between servers if the data gets too big.
Now Microsoft if you do the hover over recommends that you choose a property that has a wide range of
values and will likely be evenly distributed so let's look at an you know an idea where in a company
maybe you have your employees evenly split among four or five different offices so maybe the partition
key is the office you know the office label whether it's Toronto Tokyo New York whatever.
That could be a good partition key because then you can divide the data equally into multiple locations.
The example given here is zip code.
So it's another example where within the postal system United States people are going to be fairly evenly
distributed except for some very small limits across zip codes right now.
So in this case I'm going to say job title now it might not be.
There's only one CEO but at four The vast majority of the company there might be some even distribution
between people who are you know sales persons customer service persons developers etc..
This is just the example here.
Now it's asking us to define the throughput at the at the at the collection level.
I'm going to go for the minimum so 400 is the minimum and we can see here that's going to accumulate
77 cents per day which is probably 20 dollars at the end of the month.
So there's still some fees that are going to be accumulated as soon as I click the OK button here.
Finally it's asking me to create if I want to have unique keys so unique keys is just as it sounds the
same with any relational database.
If I say that there's a I want to make sure that the employee I.D. is unique then this is going to basically
enforce the uniqueness of this field throughout this collection.
I'm not going to end up doing that I'm just going to click Okay so now it says creating new collection
employee for database main D.B. it's going to take a second to do that and that's how long it takes.
Right.
So now I have a cosmos deep database within this account and there is one collection now of course there's
there's absolutely no data in here and we can see here that it supports triggers the functions store
procedures very similar to a SQL Server database in some of those features in the next set of videos
we're going to talk about interacting with this causal CB using Visual Studio.
