Now another advantage of using a database like Cosmos D.B. is this concept of consistency.
So if you go into settings under a default consistency we can see that the session consistency is the
default.
Now there are five choices to choose from.
I do like this image or this animation that Microsoft has that explains what consistency looks like.
So if we start on the left with strong consistency it's basically guaranteed that when a region writes
a piece of data that all of the other replicated regions are able to read that data at the exact same
moment.
So in some sense there's a delay in the writing such that the data gets replicated to all regions and
then it's available to everyone.
OK so we've got a perfect consistency across all the regions that candidate E isn't going to read the
data and be a little bit behind something that was written or another region has access to there's a
concept of boundless bounded staleness here and we can see that the data is going to be consistent.
You see it's being deployed in the colors of the notes here are coming out in the same order but you
can define the maximum lag time so maximum leg is here.
And the note says that it is minimum of five seconds for a single region and five minutes for multiple
regions up to one day.
So if you said you know what I'm okay with there being five minute delay between the time that I write
and the time that's available in all the regions then you can use this bounded staleness and we can
see here the data is being written and it gets a little bit of a delay in terms of the data being available
in other regions.
Now session is the default.
And basically what it allows is that depending on the session of the user that person is going to get
consistency.
So in session a they can write here and then read in another region and they're going to have consistency
because they're reading from the same session whereas another session another client in a different
region will see the same data but basically it's it's gonna be consistent but there's gonna be an on
defined delay between each of them.
Okay so this is a little bit confusing in terms of us the type of consistency model but basically the
same client the same application could access the data in three regions in this case and they'll have
the same data the data READ IN A B and C all returns the same result whereas a different client might
get a little bit of an earlier result coming up next is called consistent prefix and basically says
it basically going to be always displayed in the right order.
But we can see that there's a definite lag between the time it's written and when any particular region
has it available for writing.
But there is a guarantee that the data updates will always come in the right order.
It's going to be a a b ABC but it'll never be a C in terms of updates everything's guaranteed in the
order.
But there's really no guarantee as to when a particular region gets the next update.
Now eventual consistency is called the weakest one.
And in this case there's just no guarantee that they are going to come in the right order.
So this is for the type of data where it doesn't matter what order they come in.
Microsoft gives the example of re tweets likes comments that are not in a threatened fashion.
So anything where it doesn't matter that it was before B as long as a and b eventually get displayed
then this is the kind of data model you would choose for this.
So if you if you really do require that if you're going to write to the database and every region of
the world that your database is deployed to has that data available at the exact same instant then you're
probably going to get pulled towards strong consistency.
If you're fine with a little bit of a leg.
Some data gets written in Canada.
But it takes a little few seconds to get to Australia and maybe another few seconds to get to Europe
then you would choose something like this.
Right.
Of course you don't want the same client to read one piece of data in one database and read a different
piece of data in a different database.
And so maybe session consistency is best when it's bound to the client so for the exam it probably would
be smart to riff review these types of consistencies and understand under what circumstances you would
choose a strong consistency what circumstances you would choose a session consistency and maybe what
circumstances are best for something like an eventual consistency where the order of the data doesn't
matter as long as you have the sum total of the data.
All right.
So hopefully that makes sense in terms of consistency which is one option that you have for customers
deeply that you don't have for a table storage account for instance.
