So let's talk about the concepts of partitions just a little bit more.
And specifically what is called a cross partition query.
I have a brand new account, brand new database and a brand new collection.
And I created let's just create a new query here.
I created for cars to go in my car's collection.
Two of them are BMW and two of them are Hondas.
Now, when I do this collection, I said that the make property was going to be the partition key.
And so behind the scenes, what Kosmos Deby has done is taken these four records and divided them into
two partitions, which are two separate instances.
So I've got my BMW data stored in one partition and my Honda data stored in another.
When I run this seemingly innocent query select star from C. It's actually running twice behind the
scenes.
It runs once against the BMW partition and it runs once against the Honda partition, and those results
are correlated together and displayed as a single ResultSet.
Now, if you think about this a little bit deeper, if you have hundreds of makes in your database and
then you run a query like this, you're actually triggering hundreds of queries behind the scenes.
Now, the impact on this is every time you execute a query, it consumes what are called request units.
And so by running this query against this database for BMW and for Honda, I've now consumed, let's
say, five request units in that moment.
But if I had hundreds of makes, then I would consume hundreds of request units.
And now we can sort of see, depending on how you write, your query is going to impact your costs.
It's going to impact the throttling or the performance that you're going to see.
Because if you have query such as this, which don't limit the query to a single partition and actually
are called cross partition queries, then you're actually, you know, because you're impacting your
costs and you're impacting your potential performance bottlenecks.
So the best case scenario, let's say you've got a database that has 100 gigabytes of data that's being
stored in Cosmos DB you are going to want to make sure that you're always specifying your partition
key in your query.
So if I see where DOT make equals BMW.
And I execute that this query only ran against the one partition, it did not run against the Honda
partition, it only ran against the BMW partition because of the presence of this equals sign.
So as soon as you include the partition key and you are definitively choosing one single partition,
then that is a single partition query and that's the most efficient kind.
This query only runs once.
It only charges you against that query, against that partition and you're not paying excessively.
I can actually see an overstatement here.
And then I'm limiting it to two partitions.
Right, by specifying the partition key in an equal sine.
I am now running the query twice.
But if there were hundreds of banks, then this query would be limited to only those two, which would
reduce your costs and increase your performance.
Now what this is the final concept here, I guess, is if you're not including the if you're not including
the partition key in your query, then it's going to check every partition for this.
So if I see where location equals Dallis, it's gone to the BMW partition didn't find any.
And then it went to the Honda partition and found one record.
And so this is an inefficient query because the BMW query returned no results.
OK, there are settings within both the SDK and within the website here.
That say enable cross partition query, and so if you really want to basically force your queries to
only run against a single partition, you can obviously uncheck that or disable it within your SDK.
It is enabled by default.
And so if you don't do anything, you're going to check.
If you run a query that doesn't specify the partition key, it's going to check every partition by default
unless you disable it.
Now, again, if you disable it, you're going to lose on results.
So it's going to it's basically going to not find all of the results.
If you've got let's see, I change this color to white because I have multiple one BMW that's white
and a Honda that's white.
So this is a cross partition query because it's checked both and it found one result in each.
So if you disable cross petition queries, then this kind of query is not going to is not going to work,
and maybe that's what you want because you don't want the costs of a query like this basically messing
up your request units and your performance.
