So turning on multi factor indication is one way to do it through the users.
Right.
So we can go to an individual user or select all users and say we want to enable multi factor authentication
for those people another way to do it is to have what's called conditional access.
If we scroll down to the security settings of our app Active Directory there is a conditional axis setting
and conditional access is basically a policy that you can set.
That will turn out two factor authentication only under specific circumstances.
So instead of being dependent on the user yes or no true or false it's dependent on a combination of
circumstances.
Now there's a baseline policy here that we can see that basically says require multifactorial authentication
for secure for high level roles.
And so that policy if you turned on conditional access basically requires multi factor authentication
for global administrators SharePoint administrators exchange administrators a conditional access administrators
and security administrators.
These are powerful roles within your active directory within your applications.
And so automatically enabling this policy for those individuals makes a certain amount of sense and
we can see that we can actually
use policy in many law which means that these people would have to set up multi factor authentication
or enable in the future which means as we add administrators into our account that's going to get enabled
or we can just say we do not want to use this policy but there's a big orange exclamation mark saying
this means your admins are vulnerable.
So I'm going leave the setting that it was automatically.
We can go and create another policy.
So this is called using access outside the office.
OK.
As an example so we can see that we want to affect all users.
OK
all apps and the condition being that the location is not one of your trusted locations.
So we want to turn on MFA for any location but we will exclude what's called a trusted location and
that means we can configure a trusted location as in another area with an MFA here.
OK so any access outside the office.
If I was to enable this policy would this is the condition but we can say grant access and require multi
factor indication so we can basically allow people to log in from outside the office but require multi
factor indication.
Of course you can just deny access so people must be in a trusted location within.
That's basically their IP address and what network they're connected to.
You could block that or you could say well you know what.
That's a little bit of a more suspicious and meant to be a more careful of people logging in outside
the office.
So Microsoft Azure allows you to enable conditional access that only turns on multicultural authentication
in certain circumstances now they go back to the conditions we can see that it's not just locations
it's the devices that they use it's the apps the state of the device whether this is more of a sign
and risk is a machine learning type algorithm that will basically classify somebodies log in as being
high medium low or no risk.
And so let's say we want people who are outside the office and medium and high risk to have to use multi
factor authentication.
And so there's a machine learning component that Microsoft will assign a risk factor that could be the
person's logging in from areas that have never seen anyone log in before far distant locations away
from your office et cetera.
So we turn this policy on this will basically enable multicultural authentication in certain circumstances.
So we can remember we said about trusted locations.
Certainly we can add a location for instance this is home office and Mark is a trusted location and
we can say that this I.P. address we can use a range here so search 24 is a trusted location.
And I'm going to call that home office right.
Now I've got a trusted location so when my conditional access policy says multiple and education is
required except if it's in a trust location.
Now I have a trusted location.
So this is definitely a lot of flexibility in setting up multifactorial medication only in specific
cases.
