Now we've seen that the Microsoft Azure comes with dozens of what's called build 10 rolls and it covers
all of those Azure individual Azure services.
And so you can basically assign users you know very specific and granular permissions maybe reader permissions
to some set of resources and then contribute to permissions to other sets of resources.
But what if none of these rules are good enough for you.
OK because you've got these extremely broad rules on our contributor and reader and then you've got
dozens of very very granular rules.
So what you might need is what's called a custom rule.
Now there is not a ad rule button within the portal here but we can go and create a custom rule using
a power shower Seelye.
Now the technique that Microsoft recommends is that you take the role and basically save it to a Jay
song file.
Take an existing rule.
Let's say you take the reader will and then you then modify it.
So it's easier to edit an existing rule than to sort of come up from scratch with a workable definition
so it's showing you the example here on the Microsoft Web site of putting a readers reader role into
adjacent file and then editing the file to allow Microsoft Support Services within that for instance.
So you create this new reader support tickets roll and you're granting Microsoft support action search
star which means full access to that set of services.
So now you basically modified an existing rule giving it one more additional permission and you're calling
it reader support tickets.
And so from that point forward you can assign users that rule.
You can list those rules you'll see these rules listed in the portal when you go to assign people into
roles you'll see it you can update it you can do it.
So custom rules really are a way of making very specific permissions for your specific circumstances
instead of being forced into Microsoft's extremely granular rules.
You can say well this is what a developer is this is what a customer service representative.
This is what Davos does et cetera and create a complete package of permissions into a single roll and
then you assign those roles to people and that's why it's called rule based access control.
