So let's talk about diagnostics within Azure.
Now certainly each of the resources that we've been working with has a diagnostics option.
So this is a resource group.
And I can go down and look at the diagnostics settings for the resources in this group which is another
great reasons we organized things into resource groups going back into it.
We can choose our Azure web app and again going down into here we can see that the I mean Azure web
app does some stuff automatically but we can turn right now all the diagnostics is turned off and we
can certainly start to turn on different diagnostic settings if we wanted to start tracking diagnostics
from Azure web apps.
OK.
Going back up to here.
If we go into this the services and we start looking at Azure monitor right.
Someone Azure monitor is a relatively new dashboard for all of the diagnostics activities within your
account.
So monitor applications and your infrastructure all in one place.
So instead of it being so diverse across you know Eve it the Resource Group level or into individual
resources we can we can look at metrics we can look at logs we can set up alerts all with it within
Azure monitor.
So as you monitor very rightly is starting to become the home for diagnostics.
If we see down here there is a diagnostic settings tab into Azure monitor and we're seeing the same
resources that were shown in the diagnostic settings at the resource group level.
So now it's all in one place for the same effect.
Let's go over it and look at a virtual machine.
So here's a virtual machine that I created the other day and you can see the does actually fire off
CPSU and network etc. But if it go down to diagnostics settings there's a diagnostic settings menu here.
First of all if you might have to turn on diagnostics OK so it was something that I enabled when I was
setting up the virtual machine.
But when you go here to this overview screen and might say please turn on the Diagnostics and so there's
an you know an agent that needs to be installed let's switch over to the agent tab.
So the virtual machine is actually modified in order to throw off diagnostic settings.
So if you don't enable the agent you don't get diagnostics at the Azure level in order to have diagnostics
it needs a storage account.
You can see here on the agent tab that the storage account has a five gigabyte disk quota.
So what that means is that as it's accumulating logs it's going into a storage account and that storage
account is actually an additional thing.
So even a virtual machine that could cost you money.
Now the cents per gigabyte isn't isn't too bad but five gigabytes of storage being used are four gigabytes
of storage being used.
It's still it's still money that you should account for essentially right.
You can actually remove the diagnostics agent if it's giving you trouble.
This is one of the things if your diagnosis is not working you can do basically a reinstall it.
You can remove the agent and then come back here and it'll allow you to turn it back on.
Okay.
But so sort of there.
Now there are a number of sets of diagnostics that your virtual machine produces.
First off is the performance counters.
So we saw in the overview screen CPM memory disk network.
Those are the sort of the basic set of performance counters.
What that means is every 60 seconds in this configuration every 60 seconds your CPA is being tested
your memory is being tested your disk in your network.
OK so if we go back to a diagram like this this is every 60 seconds every minute you can see as you
move your mouse the CPO has been tested.
That means it's not actually being tested every second or you know in between times back down to diagnostic
settings.
OK.
Now if this is not let's say you want more more fine grained or less fine grained settings on this you
can certainly customize that.
OK so if I said custom then I can
I can basically there's there's five pages of performance settings.
OK so if I
see Pew doesn't even show a process.
I guess it makes sense.
So under process or information we've got.
Percent processor time percent privilege time percent use time processor frequency.
So we could sample this every 20 seconds if we really wanted to know what the processor is doing more
frequently than every 60 seconds.
We can disable some of these things and this is all getting into our log file.
This is all getting into our storage account.
There's really no sense collecting things if you're never going to use them.
So it's sort of a sort of make some intelligent choices in terms of your custom settings or you can
just be happy with the basics hitting save is going to then have to go to the agent within your virtual
machine and change how it since agent stuff back to back to Azure.
So those that performance counters we also have logs.
So think of the windows event log in your windows system.
It has application security system as three of the tabs so you can basically equate this to the windows
event log being able to have those events bubble up into Azure itself and then being able to monitor
those types of events.
You can see that if you want to log if this is an ice machine you can collect your guess logs and store
that within Azure any sort of field requests you know etc. If you've got Dot Net Applications and you
want to get tracing output generated outside of your VM into Azure you can enable that as well.
OK so logs is pretty straightforward crash dumps is pretty self-explanatory.
It's disabled by default.
Ma you're really going to be investigating the contents of the memory if you're I mean it's a very specific
use case for you needing the contents of the memory when a process fails if you're going to be able
to have the technical capability to investigate that sinks are external services.
So for instance X application insights is considered one you can have your diagnostic data fed into
application insights so that's how you set up diagnostics for a virtual machine.
If we head back to the Azure monitor I actually have a shortcut here.
Head back to the Azure monitor we can see that basically it allows you to look at activities alerts
metrics logs we're going to look into that in future video but what we're concerned with is the diagnostics
settings for virtual machines and we can see here that as that as your monitor has applications virtual
machines in premium mode containers and network which is network watcher.
So now right now if I click it it's still collecting data.
So we're going to let that run for a little bit.
We'll come back to that but basically as the virtual machine starts filling its logs we're gonna start
to be able to look at the health and performance of that virtual machine or Al my virtual machines using
Azure monitor.
