So let's talk about the next requirement which says to create a baseline for resources.
Now the concept of the baseline within Microsoft Azure is that you might have if we go into the all
resources section you may have dozens and hundreds and maybe even 1000 or more resources inside your
Azure subscription.
And if something was to happen to that let's say the someone has to go and delete all those resources
or something got really messed up and in a deployment and it started overwriting things you didn't want
them to.
How would you recover from that.
Besides you know having backups of virtual machines and things like that.
So the concept of the baseline is having each of your resources stored as either a script in the form
of a powerful script or a CLIA or stored as a template an arm template.
Imagine if you did have all of the resources in your account stored in GitHub as an armed template.
That's the baseline.
And then as you make changes to it instead of going in here and modifying the resources directly you
modify the template and just redeploy the template tapes.
That's what we want to eventually move to in a controlled manner modifying your environment in a controlled
manner.
So how do you do this.
Well one thing you can do it close out of this.
We're gonna go into a resource group.
So I'm gonna go into the A-Z S.A.T. shady first web app Resource Group.
Now there's only three resources in here but there's been four deployments and if I go into the deployments
section either on the left or from the overview screen I can see I originally deployed a Microsoft Web
site on June 18th and then I did it again June 21.
Traffic Manager and network security group on September 2nd.
So you can see how long it took.
And we can see it succeeded in when it was done et cetera.
So one way to do the baseline would be to go into this Web site view and if I click on it I can see
the complete deployment so there was a Web site and there was a service plan I can go over here to template
and I can see that deployment that happened I forgot the date already on June 21st at 248 PM.
This is the deployment.
This is the template of what Microsoft deployed.
So there's the template there's the parameters I can download these and store them.
Basically then don't have a baseline of this web app.
And the the application service plan.
Don't forget that you have to also store the parameter space on file as long as as well as the template.
It takes two files for this to be useful.
And then Microsoft provides for different scripts that you can use to redeploy this if you wanted to
it.
Well it's a pretty standard power shell here.
It takes the template based on the parameter face on and re executes it.
OK so you can you can download that.
You can add this to your template library someone to see a Z A-Z one hundred free web app and then you
go in the description and you say this is a test of saving and deployment.
You want this to be very memorable and useful when you go into your template library and you have dozens
and dozens and hundreds of templates.
Make sure that this is very clear as to what your saving you may want to have some type of naming scheme
that you try to follow in terms of organization.
All right.
So this can get saved to my templates library.
I could also download it put it in to get it for instance.
Nothing I can do as I can redeploy it.
And so I can rerun this arm template and if anything had changed with the resource it would reset it
back to the old settings.
So if I upgraded the service plan to a new size rerunning the deployment would Wright said that.
And that's the concept the site behind desired state configuration and automation.
So by rerunning the deployment Azure ensures that resources fit into the parameters that we're setting
so that's one way to do it is you can just go find that deployment that contain the resources that you
want to save and save it.
Now another thing that you can do is go back to the overview here is you can go to each of the individual
resources going to go into the apps service and I can find so I can find the an automation tab.
So there's automation tip the script tab in this resource.
And Microsoft is generating right now as I write I clicked it.
It's generating a fresh copy of the current state of this resource.
So remember that when I did the deployment in June which was the four months ago I could have changed
this resource many times across scaled up.
I could have added things use the portal nine deployment things or future deployments the automation
script is trying to capture it as of this exact moment.
OK.
Again templates parameters.
And then four options in terms of scripting.
Now I should put the caveat here the caveat is that not every resource that Microsoft offers is available
to be generated using the automation script and to be into this deployment file.
And so while most times it will work you might find that sometimes so be a resource that was unable
to be generated.
And it's dependent on other resources dependent on it.
So this is a this is not a perfect base lining strategy.
It's good.
But there are sometimes resources that that might not be covered properly in this.
OK.
So that's that's generating the automation script which will grab this resource.
Now this is not the deployment happens at the resource group level.
This is the individual resource in case of the automation a script although you can't see because there's
a dependency that you can see that the service plans in here the network security group is in here as
well.
OK so it seems to handle other related resources.
Now let's go actually take that a moment to go into the deployments.
Deployment of it's called templates so they're going to serve all services and templates.
We can see the free web app that we just created.
Right so when we went into the resource group we wanted to save that deployment.
The template has been saved here.
OK.
So if we need to redo this we can redo it.
We can redeploy it for instance from this section.
OK so those were two ways to baseline your environment using armed templates.
Now the other way that we can based on our environment is to create power shell scripts.
Now Phil if we go into you the power shell examples as a good example.
Anytime you go into Azure documentation you should build a find power show examples.
We could obviously create a power shell scripts that basically will recreate our environment.
Now this is much more of a manual task right.
So we're going to have to Microsoft doesn't automatically generate power shell scripts from our existing
environment but we certainly could take a sample script like this creating a virtual machine one maybe
a more complicated one and then get our values right.
Our resource group name our location our VM name etc. so creating virtual machine scripts from scratch
could be one way and then you store that in your your repository you get hub and then you would need
to enforce that only power show scripts can be done to make changes to your deployment to your environment
and then that gets incrementally stored.
So obviously our templates as the supported way and it's also great because it'll to the Delta for you
it'll do the desired state configuration for you but partial scripts is certainly one way to sort of
document your environment in in a permanent way that you'll be able to recreate that into a new region
or if some disaster was to happen recreate your entire environment based on the scripts that you've
been keeping up to date.
