So when we're talking about diagnostic settings we were also talking about alerts and metrics as being
sort of cousins of that if you go into a resource group you can see down in the monitoring section.
We've got our diagnostic settings which which we already went into but alerts and metrics are immediately
next to it.
So let's go into the alerts now.
I have not configured any alert rules OK.
This alert rules are going to allow me to get notified when certain things happen within this resource
group.
So I can see new alert rule and select the target that you wish to monitor.
So I've only got the one subscription McCain
and I can say I want to monitor apps.
Let's look at apps services and we can see here that I've got multiple apps services on my account I'll
just monitor the first web app that I know exists.
So I'm going to I'm going to monitor this web app.
Now the criteria that I want to alert is let's say that I want to know when the web app is stopped.
OK.
So we're going to we're going to look at web apps stoppage
I want basically all alerts based on stopped web app
now going into the that's the condition.
So the alert will fire whenever admit it stop web app is initiated against this I is at a shaky first
web app.
OK now I need to define what is this alert.
The alert itself is going to end up being a resource that's going to be stored in this resource group.
So this is a first alert or web app stopped.
Alert something
happened that stopped this web app.
Again this this thing becomes an object that gets stored in we're going to see it in the Resource Group.
Now what is going to happen when the web app is stopped.
So now I can basically say I want something to happen and I'm going to say Email admins
pay as you go in
it's going to create a new resource group for these alerts.
And basically I want to say e-mail admins and it's going to be an email function and I'm going to say
email as your manager role owners.
OK so that's what I want to happen when my web app is stopped for whatever reason
now it's going to go off and create these things before I can save it say select email admins check
add.
All right.
So this is a very simple alert condition but you can sort of see how powerful it is to be able to do
it across my Tyler count across a particular resource group or only on specific resources.
If you want to track certain events whether you want to fire off a live hook or to have an S M his message
or to be emailed or just cetera.
So we're going to refresh that.
I have no alerts I do have my alert rule that I've I've just created now
know you live on the edge here.
So I'm going to go into my first web app and so really I'm expecting that
when I stop this that this will set me alert.
Now there was that message saying it takes up to five minutes for the rules to be created.
I'm going to pause this and I'm going to try this in five minutes.
All right.
So let's go in to our web app and I'm going to hit stop and we're going to hopefully be alerted of this
so we can see that the web app stopped.
And if I go up to the resource group level and we go into Tivoli log we can see that the alert was activated
that the web app was stopped.
And this caused an alert to go off
if I go into the alerts monitoring I can see that there has been a alert that fired if I look down here
to set for alerts.
And the fact that the web app was stopped and white fired twice.
But basically this is the alert that I wanted to happen which is that the web app has been stopped.
OK.
So we can basically configure alerts based on any activities that we want to be notified of.
