So continuing to look at as your monitor now we already talked about alerts and how you can go into
the alerts report about your monitor and create rules and look for notifications that alerts are firing.
Let's talk about metrics now.
<u>**Alerts** are basically a notifications that happen behind the scenes.</u>
And it basically just fire off a message when something meets a criteria but **<u>metrics</u>** is a little bit
different.
OK here I am in the metric section and I need to beit is basically creating a chart.
So I've created this new chart I'm going to go into my A-Z one hundred Resource Group.
I can see all of the resources in there I'm going to choose the virtual machine and now I get to choose
from the various metrics.
Let's look at networking OK.
And I want to add another metric to the same chart.
I want to look at network out takes.
And so this is a chart that contains the network in and network out for for this A-Z one hundred virtual
machine.
I could I could I can pin this chart to my dashboard as an example.
And so when I leave and go and go to the home you have to scroll over I can I can obviously reposition
this when I edit my thing but I basically put a chart of something that I care about apparently into
the home page here.
It's to go back into monitor back into metrics
you'll notice that when I go back into it the chart that we are working on is gone.
Right.
So the we've added it to the dashboard.
But by leaving the screen and come back into it we've now lost our setup.
So this metrics section is really just like a report that you're generating on the fly and it's not
meant to be your dashboard.
So <u>if you want reports to be permanent you have to add them to your dashboard.</u>
OK.
Let's pick another another thing here instead of the A-Z one hundred Resource Group.
Let's go into a said first web app OK.
And I've got my app service.
Now the the inputs and outputs the types of metrics that we can monitor is different for an app service
than for VM which is different than than storage account and IP addresses and things at that.
So basically I can I can now start to build useful charts that are going to tell me over the course
of in this case last 24 hours I can obviously change this make it 30 day a 30 day chart although I guess
I haven't been saving metrics for that long.
But you can you can sort of see the potential there.
