So this video went to look again at the ways that you can monitor your expenses and your costs within
Microsoft Azure and the various reports you can pull.
Now you'll see that I've added the billing report to my dashboard and I can sort of see at a glance
how my spending has been and how my spending progresses and how many days left in the month if I click
on this it'll take me into the pay as you go subscription.
So this is this my subscription and costs.
Managing costs is certainly one element of the subscription overview so I can see the costs and I can
see a projection for between now and the end of the period.
I can go into a more detailed report.
So under cost analysis of my subscription I can see where that sixty nine ninety five has been spent
time.
And then I can even break that down.
I believe this is charging me by the day for this resource.
So this is the day by day costs for these things.
OK so as I go into the VM that I created a couple of days ago I can see 11 cent costs for the first
day of forty one cent cost for the second day so far.
OK 26 cents costs et cetera.
So you really want to break down costs you can do it in here and the filtering really is being able
to filter so Fi and uncheck everything.
And then just to check this one resource group then I can see what the costs of this the resources in
this regard group have been in the last section we're talking about tagging as a way of being able to
filter cost based on tagging.
Now this is a fairly crude and rudimentary way of looking at costs but it's it's good when you are when
you're really just looking for a quick answer you can just go in here and know what you're looking for
etc..
Okay then this report it's broken down by service.
So I can see over across all my entire account you know I paid forty seven dollars for forty seven units
of this costing me eighty two cents.
Okay I guess that's ours.
Now there are other ways of monitoring costs within within Azure.
If I go into all services I can see the cost management and billing is a preview service and this is
it.
No no we're not looking at the subscription level again we're just looking at billing for the entire
account.
You can see a link to my subscription so if I clicked on the 70 0 9 it would take me back to that previous
screen.
I don't have any other subscriptions that I have access to and I'm not part of an organization.
So Microsoft is a differentiating between my account my individual billing account and an organization
level account so I can look at invoices make sure that my payment methods are up to date etc. here.
Now there's there's a really cool feature that's available but unfortunately it's not available to me.
So I've got to pay as you go subscription.
We can see under the go back here under cost management.
It's got this splashy screen that shows me I can do some cost analysis within Azure create a budget
get alerts and get warnings when something is not is spending faster than you expect your budget to
spend.
And look at recommendations for say I'm going to do is look at their Azure advisor so as your advisor
is a tool that is automatically provided to you and Microsoft will analyze your usage in your actual
account and make recommendations.
In my case I don't have any cost recommendations that that Microsoft can make at this time.
Maybe over time they'll say you've got you know reserved instances that are not being used etc. So there
is going to be cost recommendations if you use enough you'll see other recommendations are high availability
security and performance.
Okay but we're talking about costs in this section if we go to the budget section then yeah.
Fortunately my page you go subscription is not yet supported.
So even MSD and subscriptions are not supported only the enterprise subscriptions supported and similar
to cost analysis when you go into their pay as you go support coming soon which is it's not great.
Right.
So what are these.
But basically when you work in an enterprise Microsoft is coming out with budgeting and more sophisticated
reporting features for analyzing those.
The last thing I will mention is the cloud in service.
So Microsoft purchased this company called Cloud.
And basically this one application which is outside of the azure portal can manage Azure NWS and Google
Cloud Platform costs in one place.
So if we go into cloud and we can see that
right now it's I guess it must be pulling stuff in from my account.
But two entities enterprise details
I think my account is so small that a cloud Dennis shocked by how much little data they actually have.
But it's a management dashboard.
And again you can manage your Azure a W.S. Google Cloud Platform in all in one place create some pretty
reports do cost over time cost by account cost trending.
OK.
There's optimizing tools so we can see whether the sizing recommendations are correct sizing optimization
lowest instances with the lowest amount of CPE you usage not yet because right now it's not doing anything
for me.
But anyways the cloud in service is sort of enterprise grade reporting across your entire cloud footprint
not just across Azure.
