So the next monitoring activity we're going to talk about is log analytics.
Let's go into all services and search for log and you'll see log analytics is one of the options.
That's a log analytics service.
Now that the fundamental container the fundamental resource that log analytics needs to operate is called
the workspace.
And you'll see here I've created a workspace called s A-Z SJ D.
New work.
You can create your own workspace.
And like I said it's really just a storage account or a container in which the you're going to setup
these logs to be pulled in.
So going to go into my existing one but you might have to create one.
Now we have this container by default it's empty.
There's no logs coming into here.
What we need to do is start pulling in data sources.
So I'm gonna go down to the virtual machines data sources and you can see all of the virtual machines
currently on my account.
I have three of them.
Two of them are providing their log files into this workspace.
And one of them is not to add any particular resource into this workspace.
I just need to select it and see connect in the one type connected it then all of the log files from
that that virtual machine or that resource is going to be searchable within this workspace.
We can do storage accounts.
We can do the top level subscription.
So my pay as you go subscription is connected.
So all of the activities relating to my account the creating of virtual machines the creating of resource
groups you know those are those are subscription level activities.
They can go into my log analytics account so that I can do searching on it.
If we go down into the Azure Resources tab we can see here and all of the resources that are on my account
that are eligible.
So I'm going to go into my first web app resource group and you'll see here that the narrow security
group is connected but the web app itself is not connected so I'm going to go into the web app I have
to give it a name so to see a z a shady Web app one and which which logs do I want to pull in.
I want to pull in all metrics right the metrics again are the CPO usage and the memory usage etc..
So I'm going to sit save on that okay.
And then when I go I'm going to also do this at the service plan level.
So is it a shady new plan.
And I want all metrics safe.
So now I've got two additional sources besides the two virtual machines whose a you'll see that there
is actually differentials between the metrics connection and the diagnostics connection key because
this is a service a software as a Service Platform as a service model then diagnostics is less of a
concern than actual
metrics.
Now to see that workspace summary
now the overview of my log in Alex account is basically going to tell me that I've got five hundred
activity records that I can search on.
OK if I was to close out of this go into my logs a section this is really the heart here of log analytics.
I'm going to minimize that so that this becomes front and center all right.
So you'll see here that the big part of the screen here is like type your query here it's basically
a search window.
And this is very rugged Merriman isn't to me of query analyser within SQL Server Management studio.
So we can basically start typing so if I want to see Azure activity then you'll see count you'll see
that this is the data source and the function that I want to run against it is account.
So I want to see how many records come back.
So I get one results of one hundred and three in terms of records that are available in the azure activity
data source.
OK now I can then you know they're very conveniently giving me ability to filter on this.
OK so if I wanted to say OK well let's remove the count run that we can then see the actual events that
are in our log we can see the resource group the status the sub status.
I just want to have let's see I want to filter on activity status equal to succeeded
so within the results I can obviously do some some filtering but over here on the left there's a whole
set of other things that I can I can basically filter on and when I do start to select them let's say
I want to see only from the A-Z as she does first web apps resource and I want to apply that see how
it's modified the query it's added a where clause where resource equals where about OK.
So this is very similar to the sequel creaks it doesn't say the word selector from right but we can
basically start to drill down I want to see all of the start web app operations and so now I've got
to where clauses where resource equals this where Operation equals that and now my results start to
filter down so log and Alex is basically a way for you to collect thousands and millions upon log records
and then be able to do searches in line to see all of the activities on your account within these resources
filter on a specific resource where you want to find out something that happened and this does tie in
to the alert system because I don't if I can go over here a little bit but we can see here that I can
actually set an alert.
So let's say I do want we've already gotten an alert based on the web app stopping but what if I wanted
to set an alert based on the web app starting right I can basically tie in from my log analytics into
the alert system and you can see it and also pin the query results to my Azure dashboard so if I want
this query to be front and center I want to know anytime the within the last hour this web app husband
started successfully then I want that pinned to my dashboard as a report that needs to be front center
you can do that so luckily this is it reminds me of some commercial products there's a product called
Splunk that many of you are going to be familiar with being able to run queries and then do a point
click filters based on the results it's really great for when you're debugging something that's really
going wrong and you've just got a production Web site and people are reporting errors and you just need
to sort of dig down into the records you need a tool like this as opposed to just having raw text files
that you need to control F to search through so log analytics is the Splunk of Azure it allows you to
search through virtual machine storage accounts and all sorts of you know your top level subscription
all sorts of sources in order to find interesting resource errors and other types of messages that you
can then act on.
