Now, in this section of the course, we're going to be talking about Azure Active Directory.
Now, of course, on the Azure Architect exams, this is being tested at an expert level.
But I thought I would take a moment to explain the concepts of identity authentication and what role
Azure Active Directory provides and what services it performs and how it does that.
So let's talk about the concept of identity.
You may have heard this term, but let's make sure we're all on the same page for this.
So in computing, identity is effectively a representation of a person or an application or a device.
And so you are of course you are you and I am me.
But we have to get into a computer system logged in as ourselves, and that's our identity.
Some examples of an identity are your name, so it could be like John Doe, but name isn't really unique.
You can't really uniquely identify a person just based on their name.
That's why you have Social Security.
No social insurance?
No, those are more unique identifiers.
But you don't want to use those in an application because not everyone has them and are also highly
sensitive information.
Your email address, typically only one person controls an email account, and so that could be an identity.
We often use that as our log in to many applications.
That's a definitely identity of people, but we also have applications.
So the payroll application, for example, is something that you want to give permissions to.
You want to give it rights to read the database and update certain tables so that it has its own identity
separate from an individual.
And in modern businesses, even devices have identities.
And so when you're printing something, you're able to navigate through to the printer on the sixth
floor on the west side that's logged into the network.
It has an identity that's different than other printers.
So lots of things have identities for individuals.
Usually having identity requires that you have some type of secret.
You can't just have the user provide their name and their email address and then trust that they're
not lying to you.
So usually you ask for a password or in applications, have secret keys or security certificates.
Now, it is quite common that some applications can be used without logging in at all.
Those are you're using it anonymously, but many applications require you to log in.
That's sort of goes without saying.
So how do applications traditionally handle that?
So if we look at a typical client server situation, typically you have your application, whether it's
running as a Windows or Linux application on your desktop, we can use the same analogy for Web applications
where you've got the browser or mobile apps and then you have some type of server that's providing services
in the back end and you're basically passing in a user I.D. and password to that.
And that's being looked up on a database.
So, you know, typically we don't like seeing passwords stored in plain text on the database.
So there's a hashing function and then the hashes are compared.
So that's a typical client server model.
And over the past so many years, 20 years plus, companies have traditionally written their own code
for this.
So many, many applications just have their own behind the scenes code for handling this login.
It might not seem too difficult on the surface, but there's many features, such as losing your password,
changing your password.
Now we're getting like security questions and password policies.
And when you go back through history, some of the worst password hacks were, you know, hundreds of
thousands or millions of passwords gotten stolen, have been on systems where the developers created
their own identity.
They're not using trusted software.
They've basically written their own.
And so if you think about the Home Depots and the yahoos and things that were passwords, you know,
millions and billions of passwords got leaked.
Well, those are not using really strong security systems, obviously.
So what did some companies do that enabled these hacks to happen?
Well, you know, like we just said, you storing the password in the database in plain text, unencrypted,
readable.
That's just a massive no no.
Right.
Some companies were using an algorithm that wasn't secure.
So we used to think maybe five was a secure algorithm.
And now there's rainbow tables that you can look up any empty five hash and get the password or the
texturing that associates with that.
I've seen examples where there, you know, there's a concept called assault where you can add assault
to the password and then it becomes harder to obviously look up in a rainbow table.
But then some companies are storing the salt alongside with the data or they're using the same salt
on every password.
And once you know the salt, you can reverse the house.
Then there's other scents such as not requiring passwords to be changed or having a loving, very simple
password.
You know, the one, two, three, four password, a password, password.
So those are the sort of the problems with traditional systems.
Well, Microsoft Azure actually provides identity management and it's based on the active directory
software that most and many companies use to power their desktops.
So this is called Azure Active Directory, sometimes abbreviated as Azure ad or even AD.
And it's important to point out that Azure Active Directory does not provide the same services as on
premises active directory.
So even though they share the name, it's a bit like Java and JavaScript.
They share a name, but they're not typically the same.
Now there is Azure actor directory domain services and Active Directory Domain Services, and there's
some attempts at parody, but they're not the same.
Now, one of the first things you find out is that your traditional act of treachery is based on like
Helda protocol and Caribs and Ajaka treachery uses Internet protocols.
We'll talk about Samal and W.S. Federation and other protocols.
So first of all, the you can't make an active directory request a traditional actor director request
over the Internet because it just doesn't run over HGP.
So AZRI is known as identity as a service.
So it is a get a service that Azur offers that you can rely on as an application developer or as an
organization.
You can rely on Azure ad to handle your identity in a safe and secure manner.
So instead of having your developers writing code that handles all the user's I.D. and passwords and
all the features that people demand from those systems, then you can use Azure.
So if we update the model, we saw the traditional model, the client server model.
In the new model, we have an identity provider, which happens to be Azure ad as the middleman.
And so the client app goes to the identity provider and then it does the authentication through them
and it gets back a signed token.
It can then pass the same token off to the server and the server is able to validate that the token
is valid because it is signed and they're able to then trust that the person is who they say they are
because they have a signed token.
The token often has details called claims, which are include the data time it was issued, its expiry
time and who the intended target is, et cetera.
So here are a few of the common protocols for authentication.
Samal Open I.D. and Federation.
We're going to obviously have to get into that a little bit more in this architecture level course.
But that's sort of where how we got to where we are.
We're going to talk up a little bit more about Azure ID, obviously, coming up.
