So we were able to turn on multifactor authentication using conditional access where we required administrative
users in this case, Sally, to use multifactor authentication, but that's not sort of the typical
way of turning on multifactor authentication for all users.
But go back up to the home directory here.
Let's go under users.
Now, first of all, if we look at Salleh as an individual, we need to create authentication methods
for her to use multifactor authentication.
So if you go down under Manege, you can see authentication methods.
And I provided a dummy phone number here.
I could also provide a secondary phone number or I can give a email address.
Now, I'm going to put a fake email here, Sally, at example, dot com and it's safe.
And so this is the ways that Sally is going to use multifactor authentication.
Now, remember that if she hasn't signed up for multifactor vindication the next time that she logged
in, she would have to provide those credentials.
We could require her, let's say that she's had it set up for a while.
But we're thinking it's time for a refresh.
We can say require reregister for MFA.
We could revoke any valid MFA session so that the next time she logs in, she has to she's forced to
go through Mafate.
There's some things on this particular screen.
So now that we have her information and we have enabled the conditional access for her, let's log out
of Azure.
I'm going to say sign out.
So when we go back to the portal, we're going to be asked to sign in.
Now, I've already tested this, so Sally's email is here, but I could say use another account.
And what I want to do is provide her email and password, so I'm going to put her email in there, say
next.
That's asking for her password.
I happen to know what it is.
So I'll click that and I'll say, sign it.
Now, what we're expecting to happen is that because of the conditional access, she is required to
go through multifactor authentication.
And we can see here that they've already texted a code to this fake phone number and it's asking for
the enter the code to continue.
So if this was Sally's real phone number, she would have received an SMS message that this is not a
real phone number.
We can't proceed past this.
I'll have to cancel out of that and I'll have to log in using my regular teaching account, which is
which I've not turned on MFA for.
So we've seen that that's how MFA would look from the user's perspective.
Now switch back to the directory.
Remember, I log in as my default directory, so it's no surprise and I go back to super, super duper
heroes.
And undereducated directory now again, Sally got triggered because of the conditional access.
What if we wanted to set this up for all users?
Well, we wouldn't set up a conditional access for all users.
We would go under multifactor authentication link here under the user screen.
Now, to me, this is the legacy of what used to be called classic portal.
So it's a totally different portal.
But you can see this is super duper heroes at Microsoft dot com.
So I've got the settings for the entire service and I've got a list of users so I can say skip MFA settings
for certain IP addresses.
I can allow users to create application specific passwords.
I can set the validation methods and remember multifactor authentication on devices they trust.
So there are settings for MiFi and then we go back to the user screen now we can pick this which users
we want to enable MFA and we can't do that, obviously, for well, I guess we could do it for ourselves.
Let's say we wanted to enable John Doe, who is not admin user, but we want to see MFA needs to be
enabled.
Now, for users who don't sign into the browser, there's a link that they can go to to sign up for
Miffy.
So if you have an application that requires logging, then they need to go to the browser to this link
to sign up for Miffy.
So now I've turned to on MFA for John Doe, and it's not conditional access, it's always whenever he
lives in, it's going to force him to do MFA.
So you can see this is how we can enable MFA for some users and we can view them by their group's service
administrators, user management administrators.
And we can even filter based on which ones are enabled or not.
