Now, there are a couple of other settings when it comes to multifactor authentication.
There's actually an MFA setting underneath the security.
So we go under security under Manege MFA.
Now, the multifactor authentication configuration is that screen that we saw in the previous video.
But we can see on the left here, there's a few other settings.
One setting is the lock out of accounts who fail at MiFi after a certain number of times.
So if they did try to do MiFi and it didn't work, let's say three times, you can block them out for
60 Minutes or whatever number that you set.
You can also manually block users.
So let's see, you know, users that have been compromised, you could just create them here.
See, we're not going to accept MFA requests for these people at this time.
Now, fraud alerts is this is we're going to allow the users who are on the receiving end of the text
message or the phone call or the email to report fraud.
So someone's trying to log into an account protected by MiFi.
The legitimate user might be getting these emails saying someone's trying to log into your account and
there'll be a message that says click here to if this was not you.
And so we can then allow users to submit their own fraud reports.
Now, what happens if a user says, hey, someone just tried to log into my account and it wasn't me?
So there is this ability to automatically block those users.
Now, that might be a bit extreme if the person has reporting of fraud, but they didn't successfully
log in.
So you can turn that off and on.
And there is a code for them to phone a phone number and it'll say press five to continue this way.
There's no auto dialer that is going to mass report fraud and then lock out all of your users.
That's a denial of service vector.
OK, the same one that you also might want a bit notified when these fraud reports come through.
So let's say someone does click a fraud report.
Maybe your administrative user or a group email address might want to get an email notification saying,
hey, by the way, somebody experienced a fraud.
Now, in a large organization, that might be a bit extreme, but for a smaller organization, if someone's
trying to log in as a user and that gets reported as a fraud alert, maybe it's interesting to have
that sent to you.
The rest of them aren't going to be on the exam.
But if you ever wanted to use those hardware tokens where you can have a number that changes every 30
seconds, you can register those in here.
You do need to in order for phone calls to be made, you have to have a one 800 number and some settings
around that.
Anyways, this is this configuration for Morphy.
