So less concept we're going to talk about in this section is the concept of the guest user.
Remember when we added Sally Smith way back at the beginning of the section when I created her, I had
to choose the domain name of the Active Directory tenant.
Now, it could be the one that was assigned or it could be a custom one that we added to it.
But that was you had no other choice.
Now, I guess user is an a user that is effectively external to your organization.
So this could be a a person who is not part of your active directory.
You don't want them to be part of your active directory, but they do need to access to your applications.
So as you see, invite a guest user to collaborate with you.
They're going to receive the invitation by email and then they hope they accept the invitation by email.
And once they do, then they're part of this active, dirty tenant, but they're not part of your organization.
So that's called a guest user.
It's actually the same screen.
You can create a user or invite a user.
So I'm going to create myself here.
So Scott Duffie.
I am going to have to provide an email address here, I'm going to blurred that out, if you don't mind,
but this is going to go to my Gmail account and I'm going to put in that.
So I'm going to say, hey, Scott, come join me
now.
I can add them already to this non admin user group, for instance, and I can see invite that's going
to send off an email to that user and then we're going to be able to add them as a guest to this account.
So here's the invitation I received in my Gmail.
You can see that it's inviting me to super, super duper heroes.
There's a link for me to click in order to accept.
Then I will get added to this activity or I can start being assigned roles and responsibilities and
be able to log into applications that use that tenent as its authentication.
As we see, external guest users can be invited into your architecture tenent that do not aren't part
of the domain, the custom domain or the assigned domain that you've created for it.
