So let's switch over to the portal and have a look at this Azure ad.
Now, if you've created the account, whether you registered it as a free account or a page ago, account
your own account and you didn't join an organization, the chances are that you created both a user
or account and in Azure ad tenent.
So if I go to my profile on the top right corner and I click on it, I can see it's got my email address
here and there underneath.
It's got the tenant that I'm part of here.
If I see a switch directory, I can see this Azure ad tenent.
So my current directory is scuzz course.
I would look on Microsoft dot com.
That is the Azure ad that I'm working out of.
So if I close this up and go into this pyramid in the menu or if you open up all services.
You can type in the shirts under Directory Azure Active Directory, and again, that will tell you what
directory you're currently logged in as.
So there is a distinction between the user, which is you as you're logged in, you have a role in a
tenant, which is Azure Active Directory.
Now you can have more than one.
So there's this switch tenant link here.
We also saw which directory.
Same concept up in the top.
Right.
And so I happen to have five or six tenants.
If I say all tenants, I can see that I have seven of them currently.
OK, it's very easy to create a tenant.
So if I click this plus sign to, say, create a tenant, it's asking me what type I want.
Let's start with the Azure ad type.
We'll talk about BTC later on.
If I click next and say configuration, I have to name the organization.
So this is the League of Cloud Heroes and the domain name could be Cloud Heroes League dot com.
And I don't know if somebody has already got that.
But you see, it's giving me and dot on Microsoft dot com extension here.
Oh, there's no periods allowed here.
It's giving me a dot on Microsoft dot com extension.
So by default, Azure ad will assign you a domain name on Microsoft dot com and then you can set your
location and that determines which data center is going to get this information is going to be stored.
And so obviously regions matter.
And so if you chose the United Kingdom, then you're going to use a European data center.
United States will be American, etc..
Again, Turkey's in the European data center.
I can say review.
And look at that over cloudberries league, as long as nobody's taken that, I assume not I can click
create and now that go off and create a new tenant for me.
And that's as easy as it is.
There was only a few fields.
Now, when we come back from the next video, we're going to see this.
This has been created and then we're going to see the effect of that.
Are we able to create resources under this tenant?
Well, we'll see the answer.
I'm going to leave you on that cliffhanger created a brand new tenant.
Can I create resources?
As soon as it's finished, come back and find the answer to that.
