So that was pretty quick, my league of Cloud Heroes tenant has been created and I can immediately switch
into the tenant.
Let's so let's do that now.
My Azure is going to look a bit a little bit different.
It's as if I'm logging in again.
I'm going to go to the home here and look, it says Welcome to Azure.
And it's giving me options to sign up for a subscription, including the offer for the free trial or
student benefits, cetera.
If I go into the menu and say, dashboard, my dashboard is empty, what's so what's happened here?
So really when I switch to a different tenent, I don't have a subscription on this.
Tennet So there's no billing arrangement.
Azur does not have a way of charging me for anything.
So I go into virtual machines and I don't even see the virtual machine interface.
It's telling me I have to sign up for a subscription.
So that's the answer.
The answer is no, I cannot create any type of resources, I guess I could create a resource group because
it doesn't require a subscription.
See if it even lets me do that.
See, so even a resource group can't be created when I don't have a subscription.
So I'd have to go back to one of my tenants.
I know a couple of these tenants have subscriptions.
This is my default one.
And again, logging in again to Azur, back to my main subscription here, my maintenant, and now I
can see my regular home page with all my resources.
So switching tenants is switching subscriptions.
And if you don't have a subscription and your new tenant, you can't do anything.
Now, that doesn't mean the tenant is useless without a subscription because the tenant still exists.
So if I go back to my brand new League of Cloud Heroes.
We haven't really talked about Azure Active Directory as a product and all the things that you can do
with it, but it's still a repository for users, groups and our devices and applications.
So the Azure Active Directory is fully functional.
Of course, you can't upgrade to a premium subscription because you don't have a billing method, but
you can add plain users.
So if I said new user create user, I can create John Doe at Cloud Heroes League.
That on Microsoft dot com.
Auto generate the password no groups create.
So now I've just created a user for our brand new tenant so its tenants are still useful without subscriptions,
you just can't create resources against them.
And obviously, resources that are running a subscription can't access resources running on another
subscription unless you set that up as you will.
OK, now back to the tenant level.
Let's say, OK, you know what?
We tested this out.
It's it's great, but we don't need another tenant.
It's easy enough just to delete the tenant as well.
Now, you'll see here there's a couple of errors.
One is that I just created a user and so you can't have an active user.
So I can obviously delete the user.
And once we refresh that, we can see there's still one other error, and that is that our user needs
to elevate permissions to delete the tenant.
So it's very easy.
You can click on this link, scroll down to here and then click on this to say yes, to give yourself
permission to manage the tenant so I can say save.
And at this point, then I should be able to delete the tenant.
So we've seen that creating a tenant is easy.
You can't do anything with it until you add a subscription in terms of managing resources, but you
can manage users and groups and applications and things like that.
And so as your tenants are user management identity as a service offering in Azure and for the rest
of this section, we're going to see a lot more of what it can do.
