To upgrade to the premium pizza in a free trial, just click this activity button and you can see it
just as activating.
So now it successfully activated the trial.
And you might think that the PETA trial takes effect immediately and it does not.
It took about 10 minutes before I was able to refresh this and get to its default view.
If we go up to the Azure Active Directory level, we can see that our license has been upgraded from
the free tier to the premium to tier and can go back into security and back into identity protection.
Now, identity protection is all about the automated detection of certain risks we have in the under
the protect element.
We have a user risk sign and risk and my favorite illustration policy.
And then the other significant part is, of course, the reporting of these and finally the notifications.
So identity protection is about this automation.
So if we go under user risk, user risk is basically about looking at the user accounts that you have
registered and identifying which one of those are potentially compromised.
So you put the mouseover on this AIATSIS likelihood that the user account is compromised and it gets
you allows you to make a policy based on low, medium or high compromised likelihood.
Of course, you can choose the user.
So let's see.
We want to apply this.
Well, let's apply to all users.
I'm going to cancel that and see if any user in our active directory is compromised.
We want to take an action now.
Maybe low risk is maybe too low.
And we we're going to have a lot of false positives at this.
What is the risk, by the way?
The risk of a user being compromised can be anything from there, a user I.D. and password being found
online.
So if there's a pirate website or the paste bins and the places where people trade passwords, if that
user account is found there, that's one of the risks.
Or if there's a bunch of brute force method of attacks against a range of user I.D..
And so, let's see, a particular user has had hundreds or thousands of login attempts that would clearly
be a brute force attack.
Well, that user then gets a little bit riskier.
And then there's what they call threat intelligence, which is a machine learning model that Azure can
apply to understand if a user's behavior or activity is unusual.
And so it's almost like your credit card detecting unusual purchases.
So Azure has the ability to understand that a user is not acting to what they consistently do if they
log in in the mornings around eight a.m. and they perform these tasks and something is outside of that,
that that could be a risk.
Now, maybe I don't want these false positives, but we do want anyone who is a medium or above risk
to be to be blocked access I should have put that to for so you can set this policy for all users or
anyone has been identified at a medium level or above is being compromised, then we want to deny them
access to log in.
Now we do have the option of allowing them access as long as they change their password.
So again, if the account is compromised, then changing the password is a reasonable mitigation.
So for now we can see, you know what?
If you are potentially compromised, if your user I.D. has been found or whatever, then we're going
to deny you access.
This can be for a sensitive system.
You have to obviously turn this on at times, just enough to fill it out.
The other option is what's called signing the risk.
Now, Sinon risk is slightly different than user risk.
So Sinon risk is defined by Microsoft as being the probability that the given signing attempt isn't
the identified owner.
So the user risk is that the probability that the account is compromised and Sinon risk is the probability
that the signing attempt is not the person who is supposed to be slightly different there.
Now, the types of risks, if we go down here to the sun and risk it says likelihood the silence coming
from someone other than the user.
So the types of risk that we're talking about are like using a anonymous VPN.
So if you sign up for a VPN service, not your corporate VPN, but another VPN service, that's an anonymous
IP address or you're using the Tor network, that could be a risk.
Any of these these anonymous IP address if you're logging in from a country that you've never used before.
So, you know, if you're logging in from from Europe, but you're an American and you've never logged
in from Europe before, there's a sign in risk gets raised to that.
And perhaps where which country you're lucky in from might have different.
Associated with it, if the IP address you're using is known to be a bad IP address, hacker's IP address,
that could be a risk if you're signed in in two locations at the same time to geographically separate
locations.
So you're saying that in the United States and you're signed in that Europe on the same time, that's
called impossible travel.
And so that would be identified as a risk.
So this is characteristics of the sign in.
Again, we can choose the users.
We can say all users.
And again.
Design and risk, we can see what kind of risk.
So let's say medium and above, and what do we want to happen if identity protection identifies that
this person designing this potentially bad while we can, of course, block access, same options or
allow access with potentially allow MiFi, some of the same force policy and say safe.
The MFA registration policy is where we would force certain users are all users to sign up for multifactor
authentication.
We can see here that the required MFA is checked and we can identify whether we want all users or to
exclude certain users.
Let's say I don't want myself to have to use MFA, but I want everyone else, et cetera.
Now, first you'd have to set up MFA.
So we're not going to set this down under the report section is pretty straightforward.
It'll it'll analyze your database and find any users that have had their credentials leaked and or compromised
users.
And the signing's report will tell us any attempts for people to sign in that have been identified as
risky.
And again, we can set up a notification or a digest of what users have been in these reports.
So that is identity protection.
We can see that this is where we can set up policies and that will then basically deny access to people
who are at risk as identified by Azure.
Now, Azure doesn't give much, much details on what this really means.
Like they're not going to define exactly what's low and what's medium.
But that's understandable because they don't want hackers to have that information either.
