Now, let's talk about password resets.
Now, if a user is registered in Azure Active Directory and let's say they've forgotten their password
or something's happened that locked them out of their account by default, they're going to need to
contact you as an administrator or your support staff to get their password reset.
Now, what you can do is enable what's called password reset or sometimes called self-service password
reset.
As we can see, the default is set to none.
Now you can turn on self-service password reset for all users or you can choose a group that users belong
to.
Now, I created this group called Non Admin Users that don't contain the administrative user.
So let's say we don't want admin users to be able to reset their passwords because their accounts are
sensitive and we do not want them to contact us.
But for regular users there in this group, anonymous users that I created.
And I can now turn on self-service password reset now self-service password reset allows users to either
have a mobile app notification or an email or a phone call in order to get their password reset.
So if we go under authentication methods here, then they do need to authenticate in one way and we
require either an email confirmation or an SMS text so we can optionally turn on the mobile app code
or security questions.
There's a couple of them that are great out that we can contact Microsoft about getting enabled only
for non trial subscriptions.
So we see these are the two options.
Now, it should we should also point out that the user themselves have to have this information on file
in order to use these methods.
So they have to have their phone number on file in order for us to text them.
And so they should do that beforehand.
Those are the authentication methods.
By default, if we look on the registration options, we'll see that the users are going to be prompted
to provide their phone numbers and email addresses the next time they sign in.
And every one hundred and eighty days in the setting, we're going to reconfirm that those information
is still valid.
So this is what's going to help us when they want to change their passwords, they can then change their
own passwords.
Now, we should point out that we haven't talked about, you know, synchronization with your on premises
yet.
But this is a complicated situation.
If you have an on premises active directory managing your user accounts for your Windows desktops and
for many of your applications, maybe you don't want them to be able to reset their password in the
cloud.
But if you do, you may want that password to then be updated in their main directory, the main active
directory.
This is the single Sinon case.
So you have to do the connection on premises, active directory, and then you can choose whether or
not those updated passwords get written back to on premises.
