Now, another security offering within Azure Active Directory is called Conditional Access, so we go
into the security menu item, we can see that conditional access is right up there with identity protection.
Remember, we saw identity protection a couple of years ago, and those are some built-In policies that
detect a risky sign ins or user accounts that have been compromised with conditional access.
We can set a lot more people, different policies to enforce actions against.
Now, when you get here, you think that there are some pre-existing policies that you can turn on.
But as of the time of recording, none of these are enabled anymore.
That policy's been deprecated.
It's no longer in.
This can't be enabled.
So this all the defaults have been removed.
All we really have is the ability to create our own policies.
So, for instance, we can say new policy.
Now, let's say I want to make create the policy where all administrative users have to use multifactor
authentication.
No matter where you are, if you're in the office or you are on vacation, all users have to use multifactor
authentication.
So I can call this all admin MFA.
Now, I choose the users and groups that this policy will apply to.
I'm going to choose it by group.
I could choose the rules and then choose the admin roles from there.
But I created a group called Admin Users that contains Sally Smith and myself as the two admin users
on this account.
So I assigned this policy to the members of this group.
Next, I have to choose which applications this applies to.
Now, by default, it's none which is useless.
It would not apply to anything.
I'm going to choose all cloud apps.
Now, this is kind of scary because if I did this wrong, I could block myself out from the Azure portal.
Now, keep in mind, this is a secondary tenant for me, so I could still log into my primary tenant.
But working on a secondary tenant, it's not so bad.
I'm going to have to choose all cloud apps.
We look at the conditions.
This is very similar to the identity protection where you've got Sinon risk and user risk.
Well, there are some additional things that you can do this based on.
So you could say, well, I want all admin users for all apps to have to do MFA, but only if the user
risk is above a certain threshold.
But I'm not going to leave these all blank.
It's OK to leave those blank.
I go down to Grant.
I do want a grant at this access, but I do want to require multifactor authentication.
Have a look at some of the other requirements you could impose.
So I could require multifactor authentication.
I could require that they're using a compliant device.
I could require the device as part of the Azure ad network that the device itself has authenticated.
I could say that the app has to be approved in a list of approved apps and a couple of others.
It could require a password change if they meet this criteria, but that wouldn't make sense for this
condition.
So I'm just going to say require multifactor authentication and say select.
I do have to turn the policy on.
You know, I could have it off and I could make it show up in the reports only.
But that's kind of useless for this kind of policy.
So leave it on.
And then I would click create.
And so there it is, a created it.
If I refresh, I can see all Edman face on.
Incidentally, the screen is also where you could upload a terms of use and force users to agree to
a terms of use before they can continue.
So if that's important to your organization, that's in here as well.
So as you can see, conditional access has quite flexible ways of you creating custom policies for your
users on Sinon, whether they need to be of guilt through extra authentication or not.
