 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers and welcome to these certified Solutions Architect associate course for 2019. 
 My name's Ryan Cronenberg. 
 I'm going to be your instructor. 
 And in this lecture we're going to talk about why you should learn AWOL and why you should get certified 
 with AWB. 
 Now if you already know that you want to learn AWB and you want to get certified you can go ahead and 
 skip this lecture. 
 It's really an intro but we will also discuss the different certifications that are available and the 
 different levels of difficulty for each certification. 
 So before we begin I'll just tell you a little bit about me. 
 Believe it or not I'm an ex immigration lawyer and I had no background in tech. 
 I only got into tech after the global financial crisis or as we call it in the UK the credit crunch. 
 And basically I was a highly skilled immigration lawyer I was helping people get visas to Australia 
 New Zealand Canada and into the United Kingdom. 
 And then the GFC or Global Financial Crisis hit and suddenly all the work dried up basically because 
 people couldn't sell their houses because there were no mortgages. 
 People were no longer wanting to get visas to move countries. 
 And so I was very highly qualified in an industry that had almost no demand. 
 So I decided to retrain and get into tech. 
 I was always interested in tech. 
 So I went to night school and I got my Microsoft and Cisco certification so my MTC and my CCMA and off 
 the back of that I landed a job at Rackspace in 2010 and working at Rackspace in 2010 was amazing because 
 Rackspace was at war with Amazon. 
 There was a huge war to dominate the public cloud. 
 Amazon went on and won that war. 
 But it was really really fascinating to be in that space at that time. 
 So while I was at Rackspace I was quickly promoted to become a solutions architect. 
 I stayed with Rackspace for another 12 months and then I started moving around in the managed service 
 provider space and eventually I tried to get a job at a W. 
 So this was in late 2014 and I was trying to get as many AWOL certs as I possibly could in order to 
 get that job. 
 But I found that there was just no good online training available or at least I didn't think there was 
 any good training available at that time. 
 And I thought to myself if I don't get this job at Amazon I'm going to go on and create some courses. 
 And that's exactly what I did. 
 I didn't get the job turned out to be the best thing that ever happened to me. 
 And so I founded a cloud guru and we've taught us to 750000 people and counting. 
 And the way we do our courses is the best way to learn eight years is to get your hands dirty so we're 
 not going to do Death by PowerPoint we're only gonna use PowerPoint where we have to cover the theory 
 but most of what you're going to learn is going to be going into the obvious console and building things 
 yourself. 
 And the reason I tell you my story is I want you to understand if you don't have a background in tech 
 if you've never even logged into the top U.S. console before don't worry I've been now I've done it 
 I know exactly that you know how you feel and by doing this course not only will you learn how to use 
 Amazon Web Services but you also know everything that you need in order to pass your AWB certified Solutions 
 Architect associate exam for 2019. 
 So why should you get AWB certified. 
 Well it's extremely valuable. 
 The certifications are required in order for AWB partners such as consulting partners to maintain certain 
 levels of partner status. 
 So for example a standard partner must have an employee with at least two associate certificates a premier 
 partner needs an employee with at least a premier partner it needs at least 20 associate certificates 
 amongst its employees as well as eight professional certificates. 
 So Amazon themselves drive value through the certification program by requiring their partners to have 
 AWB certifications. 
 So what Adobe asserts can you do. 
 Well let's start with the easiest one which is the practitioner tier. 
 So this is called certified cloud practitioner. 
 Now by doing this course you'll actually be able to pass the certified Solutions Architect associate 
 exam as well as the certified cloud practitioner. 
 So don't worry if you want to go ahead and start on the cloud practitioner we do have another course 
 on a cloud guru for that. 
 It is quite a bit shorter but we're going to cover everything that you need to know in order to pass 
 your certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 There's also this certified developer associate and certified CIS ops administrator associate certified 
 developer associate of courses aimed at developers and CIS ops administrator associate is aimed at you 
 know system administrators. 
 So Windows system admins or Linux system admins then we have the professional tier. 
 So we've got the certified Solutions Architect professional and certified dev ops professional. 
 It used to be that you had to get an associate in order to go on to do a professional. 
 So for example if you wanted to do certified Solutions Architect professional you needed to have the 
 certified Solutions Architect associate certificate first. 
 Amazon have recently just changed that so as of November 2018 that's no longer the case. 
 It can go ahead and just set the professional exams. 
 I wouldn't do that if I was you I would practice on the certified Solutions Architect associate and 
 then certified CIS ops administrator associate before the professional exams you could know everything 
 there is to know about AWB. 
 In the entire world and still fail those two exams. 
 The reason is is you have on average two minutes and seven seconds to read each exam question and to 
 come up with the right answer. 
 So if you've got really bad time management you've just run out of time. 
 So they are really really challenging exams. 
 I would practice on the certified Solutions Architect associate first and certified CIS ops administrator 
 associate. 
 We didn't have the specialty tiers so we've got advanced networking big data security and the newest 
 one which is machine learning. 
 So depending on your background you may or may not want to do one of the specialties. 
 Security is one of the ones that I teach. 
 It is really really fascinating and interesting and it's lots of fun. 
 I would recommend going on and getting security specialty because who doesn't want to be secure in the 
 cloud. 
 Machine learning is really really tough. 
 I actually thought that exam was written in a different language because I don't come from a machine 
 learning background but that is the newest one that is available. 
 So in terms of the difficulty levels between the exams going to start from the easiest to the hardest. 
 Now this is just based on my own personal opinion. 
 I have run this by other students as well I think the majority agree with me but it really depends on 
 your background. 
 So sort of a cloud practitioner is definitely the easiest followed by certified Solutions Architect 
 associate followed by CIS ops administrator associate followed by a developer associate. 
 We then have a security specialty. 
 We then have big data specialty and then have advanced networking specialty machine learning specialty 
 follows that and then we have the two hardest which dev ops pro followed by Solutions Architect professional. 
 So that gives you an idea as to the easiest to the hardest. 
 And that's just based on my own personal opinions. 
 So obvious release new features and services every year in 2000 and 11 we had 82 2012 we had 159 different 
 services. 
 In 2013 we had 280. 
 2014 had 516 and it's just exponential 2015 we had 735. 
 2016 we had over 1000. 
 In 2017 we had fourteen hundred and God knows how many there are for 2018. 
 Hasn't actually been published just yet but that gives you an idea is the rate at which AWB is innovate 
 and this is a great graph. 
 I'll put a link in the resources section below to this article. 
 It's a Business Insider article and they've got this graph from Goldman Sachs and this is a percentage 
 of spend in terms of the total market. 
 So in terms of total eighty budgets how much is spent on cloud. 
 So in 2015 rate four point three per cent when we went up to six point one per cent in 2016 2017 seven 
 point seven per cent and 2018 at nine point five. 
 Now Goldman Sachs are predicting that an organization is going to spend eleven point three percent of 
 their budget in 2019 on cloud and it's going to keep going up. 
 So you can see that cloud has a long long long way to go and we're talking decades worth of growth. 
 So this is a fantastic industry to get into and it's a fantastic place to get certified. 
 Amazon themselves are dominating the cloud. 
 It used to be back in 2016 that other cloud providers were made up more than 52 per cent of the market. 
 The other cloud providers are all dropping off and it's really the big three that are competing so Amazon 
 Microsoft and Google and Amazon are the clear market leaders. 
 So getting certified in Adobe US is a great career move. 
 The certifications are really really valuable. 
 Like I said cloud has decades worth of growth to come and it will give you a really a really secure 
 job an industry to work in as well as being really highly paid. 
 So this is a photo I took his Andy Jesse. 
 He's the CEO of AWB. 
 And this is Amazon's own figures in terms of who dominates the cloud and so Amazon think that they own 
 around 51 per cent of market share. 
 Microsoft at thirteen point three per cent and Google at three point three per cent so seriously anyone 
 can learn. 
 AWB is take it from me. 
 Like I said I don't. 
 Never came from a tech background. 
 I used to be a lawyer and I went and taught myself tech by going to night school. 
 I really enjoy tech. 
 I really enjoy teaching and anyone can learn it. 
 We have students who are 15 years old all the way up to people who are 65 and on the verge of retiring 
 and they want to learn cloud and cloud computing so this course we're going to make it really really 
 easy and fun to learn eight of us. 
 And by the end of it you'll be able to set your AWB certified Solutions Architect associate exam and 
 hopefully pass on the first attempt. 
 So hopefully that's explained why you should learn AWB as it's the fastest growing public cloud on the 
 planet. 
 Scott hyper growth and it's a very safe industry to bed. 
 The pay is fantastic. 
 It's loads of fun. 
 It's not as complicated as you might think. 
 It's just like learning another language which when you understand what S3 is an easy to cloud formation 
 and all these other nouns are really really easy to talk about eight of us and public cloud and it's 
 really easy to understand what other people are talking about as well. 
 So everything you need to know to pass your exam will be in this course. 
 You don't need any prior experience whatsoever and you're going to have an awful lot of fun. 
 So congratulations you've made it through the very first lecture and the rest of this section of the 
 course we're just going to look at what you need in order to do this course. 
 And then we're going to have a look at the exam blueprint that we're then going to move on to Section 
 2 and Section 2 we're just going to talk briefly about the history of eight of us and then we're going 
 to talk about all the different high level services. 
 And then we'll move on to section three and we'll start getting our hands dirty with eight obvious will 
 log in to the console and go into identity access management and start setting up users. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.