 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello lagers and welcome to this lecture in this lecture we're going to look at the exam blueprint so 
 we all want to pass our certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 And before we actually get started learning about AWB it's worth going through the exam blueprint which 
 will cover what it is we need to know in order to pass our exams so the exams are 130 minutes in length. 
 You're going to have about 60 questions sometimes this can change but hopefully it will never be more 
 than 60 and they're all going to be multiple choice. 
 Sometimes you have to choose one answer. 
 Sometimes you have to choose to it it'll tell you and the question how many you have to choose and your 
 results are always going to be between 100 to 1000 and you'll pass mark is 720. 
 So you need to get it roughly about 70 per cent in order to pass the exam. 
 It's always aimed for 70 per cent the qualification itself is valid for two years and the exam questions 
 are all going to be a scenario based questions so bear that in mind as well. 
 They're never going to ask you you know what is the name of Simple Storage Service which is S3 which 
 are going to learn as we go forward. 
 They're going to give you a much more advanced scenario questions and ask you about different use cases. 
 So let's go over and have a look at how we can book our exams on the AWB website. 
 OK. 
 So here I am in google and I'm going to type in to Google just AWB as certified Solutions Architect 
 and I'm gonna go ahead and hit enter. 
 Make sure you click on the top organic link. 
 Please do not click on my own adverts because you'll cost me money but you'll see the top organic link 
 is going to be AWB is not Amazon.com. 
 So we go ahead and click on there. 
 You'll be able to see an overview of the exam. 
 It does say down here that you should have one year hands on experience. 
 Don't worry about that we assume that you know nothing. 
 In doing this course and you never even logged into AWB before. 
 We're going to give you all the tools and knowledge that you need to know in order to pass your exam. 
 So down here we've got everything we just covered. 
 It's multiple choice and multiple answer questions. 
 If you do need to choose more than one answer it will tell you one hundred and thirty minutes to complete 
 the exam. 
 The exam registration fee is going to be 150 US dollars and the exams available a whole bunch of different 
 languages they see down here it says ready to get started. 
 Schedule an exam at AWB stop training. 
 We'll go ahead and click on AWOL start training. 
 If it doesn't do anything you do need to enable pop ups. 
 I don't know why it does that. 
 Well let's go ahead and just open up AWB start training now in here. 
 You need to create your AWB certification account when you do create this you may want to use your work 
 email address if you're going to link this back to your organisation or if you want some more flexibility 
 might want to use your own personal address. 
 It's up to you. 
 But what you want to do is just go ahead and click here. 
 AWB certification account and then you want to either sign in and if you don't have an account you can 
 create one just by clicking the sign in button and I will take you to this landing page and you just 
 need to either create a badge or email in there and if you don't have an account go ahead and create 
 it. 
 Now have gone ahead and signed into my account. 
 You'll see as the AWB is training and certification landing page and in here you've got the ability 
 to schedule a new exam. 
 And down here you'll be able to see your recent activities and you can actually go over to and see your 
 previous exams you'll see how many exams I've done since teaching AWOL. 
 I've done an awful lot and haven't passed everything I have failed some other ones. 
 Sometimes their practice exams sometimes they were better when they first came out. 
 The fact these two ones that I had did fail were the beta exams but I went on to pass them later on. 
 So you are in really good hands. 
 I don't know what I'm doing of past an awful lot of AWOL exams. 
 Once you have passed your exams you're going to get digital badges digital badges badges that you can 
 use in your signature. 
 The more exams you pass the more badges you get and you'll be able to also go in here and click on benefits 
 and you'll be able to order certain things from the store depending on what exams that you have passed. 
 So let's go ahead and have a look at how we can book our exams if we click on home. 
 We'll go ahead to schedule new exam. 
 This is actually open up a new web page which is the PSA exams web page and in here you'll be able to 
 go and schedule your exams when you are scheduling your exams. 
 Make sure you read them carefully make sure that it is you might get two options like here I've got 
 the dev ops engineer professional beta I don't know if it's going to let me see the other devils professional 
 because I've only recently just passed that sometimes it will take a little while before you can reset 
 the salmon. 
 Same exam again. 
 But here you can see AWB certified Solutions Architect professional. 
 So this is the standard exam. 
 This is the Beta exam. 
 So do just make sure that you choose the one that is most relevant to you. 
 For me it would be AWB certified Solutions Architect associate. 
 And that's what you want to find in there. 
 And then all you need to do is go ahead and schedule your exam and that's is it. 
 It's pretty straightforward. 
 So now that you know how to schedule your exam. 
 You're ready to move on to the next section of the course and the next section we're just going to have 
 a high level overview of eight of us. 
 Some exam questions are simply understanding what a service is what its use cases. 
 So the next section of the course is going to give you a high level overview of every single service 
 in the AWOL console. 
 After that section of the course going to start getting our hands dirty we're going to start learning 
 about identity access management. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next section of the course. 
 Thank you.