So we've been looking at networking virtual networks and subnets.
The next something we want to talk about is called Roots Our specifically a root table and close this
up going to the create new resource.
And we're going to look for a root table now a row table is basically a list of IP address ranges and
that will tell Microsoft Azure how to send traffic.
That's basically coming over your network.
So we're going to create this now and we'll just sort of look at it very quickly.
Is that a new route put this in my new resource group candidate east and we're going to just leave the
default settings and let that go so that was fairly quick our round table took twenty five seconds to
create.
I'm going to go into it now.
We start looking at the roots.
We got no custom user defined routes by default so let's add a root to this row table as an example.
Now let's say we want to implement a rule that says any traffic that originates from a server running
on the back end network that we created for that other virtual network.
We want that to go through a firewall before it leaves the network.
So I'm going to say a send to firewall as being the real name we want.
Let's say we see the back end network.
So that's when 90 does zero dot to 2 does 0 such 23 by memory and we want this traffic to be sent to
to a virtual appliance.
And that virtual fence is going to end up being a firewall.
Now we have not created this virtual appliance yet and might be outside of the scope of this lesson
to do so.
But let's just assume that our firewall is sitting there waiting for someone to talk to it at one 90
does zero dot for dot 1.
We haven't yet created it yet but this is where traffic originating from this this these sources are
going to be sent.
So now we're going to create that rule.
Now we haven't even associated this wrote table with our subnet yet.
So let's go down to the subnet section and say associate we have to choose the virtual network which
is our new net.
And we wanted this to this rule to be associated with the back end subnet.
So traffic that travels over the back and subnet has to follow this route.
Table.
