So within the last year Microsoft came out with a relatively new feature called application security
groups.
Now application security groups are an enhancement to network security groups in that it allows you
to reduce the number of network security groups that you require or in the number of security rules
that you require.
Now the way it does that is by grouping resources that have the same rules together.
So instead of having to create a separate network security group for every subnet that you have and
then separate rules for every resource you can put all of your SQL Server databases all of your application
servers all of your web servers into the same security group.
So let's examine that.
I'm going to hit the ad button my search application security groups up here and now in hitting ad we
do have to choose a resource group for it.
I'm going to put this in the A-Z 300 resource group and I'm gonna call this my application security
group and I'm going to leave that in West U.S. to now does take a moment to create something click review
and I'm going to click Create and then we gonna pause the video and come back once this is created.
All right.
So that completed we're going to say go to resource now inside the application security group that we've
just created.
There's absolutely nothing here.
It's a completely blank overview screen and there's really no settings to speak of.
So what's going on.
Well in order to see what's going on we need to assign this application security group to a resource.
Now the applications the charity groups are limited to the region in which they have been created.
So we created this in West U.S. too.
And so let's going to go to the virtual machines TAB here.
Now I do happen to have a virtual machine running in West U.S. too.
So don't go into that and we can see this with this machine just was just started actually.
But go down to the networking section.
We can see that the virtual machine has NSG rules input inbound port rules outbound port rules and there's
this tab called application security groups.
So when I click it I can see there's not there's no application security groups associated with this
network interface and I can say configure the application security groups.
Now it does say showing only security groups in the same region as this.
So I can put this into the My ASG security group.
Let's do that.
Now what we can do once this updates is we can modify the network security group.
So we're going to go back to the network security group and we can say say we want you to be traffic
traveling inbound so any source any port but we can actually point that instead of pointing to the IP
address of the VM or instead of allowing it to any destination we can actually specify the eight my
ASG application security group as being the allowed destination.
So as you see here we can be very liberal in terms of lowing traffic to travel to any address which
is a security risk.
We can be very specific which is hard to maintain or we can create this abstractions.
Application Security Group which allows traffic to travel to any VM that's listed in this ASG Group
and let's say we want a port 80 allow priority port 80.
So now this new rule is going to allow traffic to any net any VM.
That's part of this group.
And I don't have to modify the network security group for it and I don't have to allow all traffic to
all VMs.
