So we have our cosmos be set up.
We created a database called Main D.B. and it contains one collection called employee.
Okay what I want to do in this lesson is build a C sharp dot net app that is going to connect to this
database and start putting data into it.
Now we're going to need a visual studio for this.
I'm going to copy along.
Remember we used this program for the table storage.
I'm going to copy the same basic structure of this and create it for cosmos DP.
Now we start off by going to New get package manager and we're going to install a cosmos TV package.
Now in this case it's Microsoft Azure dot document D.B. document D.B. is the API.
This is QoL API that we chose when we set up our our cosmos DBA account.
If we chose Mongo or we chose Cassandra or something else you're going to choose a different package.
But we're going to choose the document TV package attach it to the project and c install.
Now we're going to include at the top is the key one here is this using Microsoft Azure documents star
client to get that reference into the program now on the table storage.
We sort of set up these static variables to contain this storage account the table client and the table
itself.
And we're gonna do something similar with Cosmo's DB.
We're gonna have the database name as a static variable collection name and instead of having a table
client we have a document client.
I also put the end point and the key from the storage account of a goat back to the portal and we go
down to where it says Keys.
We can see the UI is being given to us and the primary key.
Okay.
Now there is this concept of a connection string but unfortunately the Azure API is don't just take
in the connection string the way they do a table storage.
You have to pass them in separately as an endpoint in the key in the main body the program.
We just create a document client passing the endpoint in the key.
So it's a it's a lot simpler than what we have in terms of connecting to the storage account and then
creating the table client as two steps.
Now I've also broken out the insert in the query into separate methods like we did in the table storage.
I'm going to open that up now.
You'll recall that in the table storage we created this employee entity and we just put the data as
the row key.
There's actually no extra properties that just contain the partition key and the row key and we don't
have any other properties of this class.
So for Cosmo's D.B. to open up the employee entity I had to make a change to this.
We don't have this Roky right.
There's no it's not a table data.
It's not it's no sequel it's unstructured data.
So I put the first name and last name as properties so we got to get in the set here.
And I also added this two string element.
So this is gonna take this object and converted into J sign it makes things a lot easier so if we look
at the insert up we're gonna create this entity as a new employee entity.
Now I didn't create the constructor which I could have but instead I'm just gonna set the first name
and last name based on the parameters being passed.
Now I have an object.
Now this is the sort of the key to it here in terms of working with Cosmos D.B. this create document
a synchronous function takes in the database name a collection name.
So remember we we set these as statics there is a create document collection you are a method that will
go off and create the proper name of this and then we pass in the object but then since this is a string
it's going to run the two string it's going to serialize it and because I'm calling in this synchronous
method I'm going to cheat a little bit and use to get a waiter and then get it result in order to get
the result because this is not a task and this is not an asynchronous method we're doing this in a line
here not it's not ideal.
You know asynchronous function but that's what we're doing in this non asynchronous method.
And so this code here will insert I'm going to I'm going to comment out the query for a second.
Simply this code here is gonna insert these documents into the cosmos TB.
We've got the name John Doe Tony Soprano and Richard Smith.
So if I was to simply start and run this program
I would it's the console app so it's going to look and behave much like the other app and basically
just as President Q We haven't done the reading element to this.
If I go back to Azure there's a thing called Data Explorer that will allow us to see inside of the database.
We've got our main DB database and the employee collection.
And if we look at the documents inside of that collection we have three documents that were found and
I'm expecting John Doe Tony Soprano and Richard Smith.
So remember we created the Employee object that just had first name and last name.
And so Cosmo's DP has attached a number of things from time stamp a unique identifier etc. as additional
fields that we didn't have to create or control so these are these are basically what's being stored
in Cosmos D.B. it's non structured data which is being stored as Jason used to be called document DB
back in the day going back to to here.
Now we don't have to insert a comment out the insert commands and let's look at the query.
So now we've dealt with inserting the data.
Now we want to read the data
so we're not going to be using this table query I can actually remove it from the code this feed options
is actually a mandatory element.
I was getting errors around a cross partition query so we had to construct these feed options but very
similar to what we did with table storage where we had to construct a query in the cosmos.
D.B. we are very similarly constructing a query to create document query.
We create the document collection you or I just like we did for the insert with the query options.
And in this case I'm looking for the record where the last name it is last named Jack but we don't have
we should have nobody with the lessening Jack let's pick Mr. Soprano here.
OK so we're looking for anyone on our documents that has the last name equal to soprano.
And so we're expecting a 1 record to be returned so I hit a 5 and I found first thing.
TONY less name soprano OK.
So this is the document that Cosmos TB has returned and press any key so we can see here that building
queries in Cosmos TB is very similar to building queries in table storage cosmology because the additional
benefits of being a proper enterprise grade globally redundant system with with promises in terms of
service level agreements uptime response time latency etc. So we're able to use this for our real production
applications in high performance environments working with it very similar to table storage and we're
just going to use the dot net functions that Microsoft provides.
Now I should also point out there are other third party functions we're not going to get too much into
this because it's not going to be on the test but if you were to go here and look for cosmos D.B. for
a no not installed in the Browse section then you will find that there are some pretty popular third
party things that allow you to manage Cosmos D.B. so other companies and other developers are coming
up with frameworks that makes managing cosmos to be a little bit easier but by no means is it necessary.
We can obviously do it doing it doing the official way.
All right.
So that's how you develop against a cosmos DB database.
