In this section of the course, we're going to be talking about containers now, containers are a slightly
different metaphor for talking about deploying code to the cloud.
You know, we've talked about virtual machines and how you have a machine, Windows or Linux that you
have complete control over.
We've talked about Web apps where you simply upload your code to the cloud.
Containers are this sort of in-between space where you have more control over the stuff that goes on
inside of a container.
But containers are packaged pieces of code that contain everything that they need to operate.
So it's almost like your code, plus all of the dependencies in a package.
Now, Microsoft has been got some very aggressive support for containers.
And let's talk about how where you can run containers within Azure.
I mean, you can certainly create a virtual machine yourself and run containerised applications on that
virtual machine.
So just like you can have SQL Server in a VMS, you can have containers in a VM.
The Azure Carbonetti service is the Enterprise Grade Container Service for Azure.
Carbonetti started as a Google project and has been since spun off from them.
But it's basically the industry standard for running containers.
Now companies can be thought of as slightly complicated because it has orchestrators and nodes and it
scales and, you know, pods and all of these things.
So Khubani, this is not necessarily the simplest way to run containers, but if you're looking at this
from a very serious perspective, you have the people training, knowledge, technology, money to run
multiple servers.
You might be looking at Carbonetti Web apps also support containers.
When we were creating our Web app in the WebEx section that we did have a container option and so we
could have just chosen either a Windows or Linux container and then pushed our code through an image
into into here.
But what about and they're pretty straightforward, but they're not necessarily the simplest way.
Microsoft has what's called a container instance, which is they call the fastest and simplest way to
run a container in Azure.
And so you just simply push your image into a container instance.
Now, the downside of container instances is that they don't scale.
They're not as complicated as Bernini's, but they're also not as powerful as Bernini's.
So but if you need to get a container running, you're demoing something, you're testing something.
You might be looking at container instances instead of setting up a whole Carbonetti cluster just for
this one test.
Now, the big advantage that containers have over something like a Web app is that containers are once
you package them, you don't modify them.
So you create an image and then you can easily deploy that image from environment to environment finally
to production.
So you create the image, you deploy to development.
You test it, you deploy to staging, you test it, you deploy to production.
I can think back many years ago when we didn't have containers and we were just deploying things step
by step.
You would FCP the files, you would unpack the files, you would change run the database as cool scripts.
Deployments could take eight hours, 10 hours for really big sites and complicated things.
Well, with containers, you're basically making the deployment much easier.
But then you lose.
You know, web apps have a lot of functionality around, you know, deployment slots and the scaling
and all these sort of things.
You sort of lose some of those benefits of the development side, but you gain it on the deployment
side.
So anyways, in this section, we're going to look at what you would do to create containers, how you
deploy them to the azure container registry and how you get those from the registry into the various
container options within Azure.
