So now when we go to hit publish on the app, we are presented with our Web app Choice, we can say
new and then we're presented with a bunch of options.
Now, we already saw in the webapp section of this course that you can just publish to Azure and it
will take an existing or create a new Web app for you.
The next option is the Docker Container Registry.
Now, Docker Container Registry, sort of a generic term.
It says any supported container registry that works with Docker images now the most famous to contain
a registries in our world, I guess one would be Docker Hub.
So Docker itself runs a container registry called Docker Hub.
And you could publish your image to Docker Hub.
Another one is called Azure Container Registry, or ACR.
Now, the Azure Container Registry is sort of designed with closed source applications in mind.
It is designed so that you're for your company.
You can create these apps, you know, build them into images and publish them to your container registry.
And only the people who are authorized are able to pull those images.
It does versioning of containers.
You can do some minor forms of documentation and tagging and things like this.
Now, right from within the visual studio, we can create a container registry.
And of course, we can also create a registry using the traditional portal.
So instead of creating a registry right from from the app here, I'm going to switch over to the portal
and we'll create our first ACR.
So we're in the portal, we can say great resource, I can't go down to the containers and see the container
registry is one of the popular features.
We can also type container registry into one of the search boxes.
So in a choose container registry, now, these go into resource groups.
So I'm going to call this AISI, a D.A. You do have to give it a fully qualified name.
You can see that it's dot azure cargo.
So I'm going to call it a zie SJT ACR as well.
And the container registry does live in a particular location.
Now, if we were again on the premium SKU, we could deal with networking, basically putting this onto
a private network that only certain virtual machines and virtual networks have access to it.
We won't deal with that.
We could also have it encrypted using a customer managed key.
And so it's going to be basically using the service key, skip the tags and go create.
And so this is going to create for me, for my company, effectively, a place where we can publish
our images.
And it's almost like a almost like source control.
But these are not source code.
This is images.
So source code for images.
Click, go to resource now, there's not much to see here, we can obviously see that at the standard
skew we do have a 100 gigabyte limit for storage and we can, you know, pay for storage.
Additionally, you know, there's a bunch of access keys.
So if we do need access to the container registry, we can deal with that, manage identity and et cetera.
What I'm going to do is switch back to Visual Studio.
And I'm going to choose this container registry to publish this image.
Now it's searching, it found my AISI Sadakat, that's the container registry we created, so we don't
have to create a new one.
There's a create button down here, but we'll take the existing one.
So we're back to the publish screen here, very similar to when you're publishing a Web app, but this
is, of course, to the container registry.
One of the important elements here is you can choose to take your images.
And so we can see that it is it is going to be tagged latest by default.
Or we could have the tag generated by the system once you hit the publish button so we can safely leave
it as the latest.
The purpose of this would be to have version numbers or significant releases.
So let's say this is the release that's going to production.
This is your gold standard print and hopefully the last image you're ever going to have to publish for
this version.
And you can have tags around stable and things like that.
All right.
So it's hit publish.
Now, the other thing to realize is we're not actually unlike publishing to a Web app.
We're only publishing the image to a directory.
We're not actually putting that application live into Azure.
I mean, this is not being published to contain or even or a web.
All right, so first time it ran and had to download a bunch of stuff, the build to an image succeeded.
But we can see that now Docker is pushing stuff up to my ACR.
So this window has opened up and we have some activities that Docker is managing.
Well, it supposedly succeeded, successfully pushed her image.
Now, if we switch back to the portal and we go down to the repositories.
We can see our new test app has been pushed, and if we go in there, we can see that there's only one
one today.
It's the latest.
It even gives us the command here that if we ever wanted to deploy this, we can use Docker on the destination
system to pull down the image tag.
The latest.
So now we have our compiled binaries published to a private repository, I will say it again, this
is not a public repository that anyone can now access.
This is a private depository for your company code.
And from here, we can now easily deploy it to any of the containerised services within Azur, including
a K.
S Web apps service, fabric and even again, Docker running in a virtual machine if we wanted to go
to that route.
So there's a lot of container support within Azure.
And so when we go into the next video, we're going to then deploy this app into various containers.
