So let's compare and contrast this to what we did for the HCI and the webapp, so if we go into operation
details, it was three minutes and 15 seconds for the first part.
Saying this is two separate parts, plus the connection to the ACR took another three minutes, so let's
presume it took about six minutes.
In fact, I can go to the resource under the resource group under DEPLOYMENT'S, and we can see that
around three minutes to do the A.I.S instantiation and we haven't even deployed the image to it yet.
Now, if we go back to the Cuban 80s, right, we can see the basic properties, we can see that the
network has been set up.
We have no pools and Schutte servers inside.
Even if we go down to some of these other settings, like under a deployment center, which is in preview
mode, this is only setting up the link to the repository.
So we can if we had our code checked into GitHub or into Azure repos, etc., we could do some integrations
from there.
But what we don't see is a portal way of deploying an image.
So we're going to have to use the command line to deploy our image from a a C R to a chaos.
So what I'm going to do for this is I'm going to pop into the cloud show and we're going to switch over
to the zeolite interface and we're going to start working with our Carbonetti using the the command
line.
Now, we know power does support Seelie commands.
Now, the first thing we need to do is we need to ensure that the service principle has been set up
for a his property.
So I'm going to see X and the commanders get credentials.
Now, we have to remember, we created this as part of the Easy S.G. DCR Resource Group.
And the Carbonetti cluster's is a US one right across this from the the portal up above.
So we're going to go and get our credentials so X can can operate within the environment.
Now, next up, we're going to have to create what's called a YAML file like AML, and it's just a very
simple set of instructions to say that we want to deploy this image.
It's called New Test App, tagged with the latest from my ACR.
And it's going to be deployed as a container and then a bunch of labels for how that's going to look
when it's deployed to ACR.
So we need to create this a file.
And I did that on my local I'm going to upload the YAML file from my local into into Azure, so I'm
going to pick the YAML file, press upload and that upload has been deployed.
Now we're going to basically tell the Carbonetti cluster to grab that Yamasaki and actually do less,
and I can see that I have another app, but I also have the new test app that we created.
So I can see now the command for working with communities is called Cube or Cube Control Cubicle.
So remember, we were using easy access to talk to the Bernardes orchestrator within Azure, but to
control is what actually sends commands to it and that's get credentials is what hooks that up.
So I'm going to say apply and we're going to pass it a file and it's be called, what do we call it,
new test app.
YAML, so now this is the command that's going to tell communities to grab this instruction, follow
the ammo file and grab the image and start deploying the container.
Now, it really hasn't done the work quite yet, I'm going to see clear here.
Let's let's see how it's going.
So I'm going to say get pods.
And the containers in the process have been created.
I run it again now we can see us running.
Now, the reason that there's two containers is because my YAML file actually asked for two.
You can certainly update this so that you only want one running and redeploy it and it would readjust.
So I'm going to upload this again, hopefully it's fair enough to overwrite and then if I go apply.
We can see that it's now picked up that one of them needs to be terminated and it's terminating.
So it is running we've deployed this, it is in a container, we can see it's running, but as of right
now, we can't go to a Web browser to call to any kind of URL.
There's no IP address associated with this.
There's no port, no nothing listening.
We do have to modify the YAML once again to have a front end listing for Web traffic and then serving
up the using the container to server that up.
So what I'm doing is I'm actually creating a load balancer type service in front of the container and
it's going to accept traffic on Port 80 and send that traffic to the new test app.
I modified the file once again.
We're going to update the YAML, Choose again, upload complete.
I'm going to use the appli.
The.
The app itself is unchanged, we can see there's a new service being created, so if I say get pods,
the pods haven't changed, but they get service.
Now, we have a new test app that is a load balancer.
And the other thing is we've been given a public IP address.
And so if I was to copy this, finally, I'm going to be able to test this app.
So I paste that IP into a browser, and I'd given my welcome, Scott.
Now you can see how much more involved this is to create an image to deploy.
I had to create this YAML file from scratch.
The Yemen file is not necessarily.
Super simple, I mean, it does follow a particular pattern, I copied this from somewhere in the modified
it for my own purpose.
But this, you know, when you're going to have additional containers, you can deploy two and three
and four copies.
So let's say I deploy three replicas instead with this little bouncer.
Then you can see that this gets pretty complicated, but in some ways it's also fairly easy, right?
So once you've set up your YAML file and you've deployed it properly, you just say apply and read it.
Re configure it.
So now my pods, I'm going to have two additional pods that are being created.
Everything else stays the same.
And so there's some elegance to it, some beauty to it.
It can.
We've got a number of servers.
So there's there's two servers running three pods each.
There's a lot of computing power behind this for the simple app.
But if you do need it, it's definitely it's definitely the way to go for big clusters in enterprise
grade environments.
