 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello Kluger as well congratulations. 
 Thank you so much for taking this course. 
 I hope you had lots of fun. 
 It's now time to book your exam. 
 I'm going to show you how to do that right now. 
 So I want you to go over to AWB stock trading and you'll see a landing screen similar to this. 
 Go ahead and click sign up. 
 If you haven't signed up already and when you do sign up make sure you use your Amazon.com credentials 
 or dot code or UK or dot DEA or wherever it is that you are using Amazon and then that way you can use 
 the same password that you sign into your Amazon account to the training and certification portal as 
 well. 
 I've already signed up so I'm going to go ahead and sign it and I'm just going to go in and sign in 
 now. 
 And once you've signed in you'll get a splash screen similar to this Amazon have a whole bunch of different 
 videos in their learning libraries. 
 It is all free so you can go ahead and check that out when you've got time but don't worry this course 
 has prepared you everything you need to know to pass your exam anyway. 
 So you want to do is click on the Get AWB certified that will load the AWB certification landing page 
 and just click in here and that will open up a new tab and it will send you over to the cert metrics 
 site. 
 Now here this is where you go ahead and schedule your exams up here. 
 You've got your upcoming exams previous exams your digital badges that you get your chief certifications 
 and then you can go in and use your certifications to buy Unique swag. 
 So do check that out under benefits once you've pass. 
 Let's go ahead and hit scheduled new exam and it really is that simple it's going to send you over to 
 this website and you'll be able to go ahead and select the exam that you want. 
 So I'm going to look for the AWB certified Solutions Architect associate exam which is in here or you 
 could do cloud practitioner because I've already done cloud practitioner won't show up for me though. 
 And then what we're gonna do is we're going to go ahead and hit schedule exam and just go ahead and 
 hit continue. 
 Just gives you a warning that sometimes if there's a beta exam that's running concurrently with a normal 
 exam that you could be selecting the wrong one and you go in and select your language. 
 And so I'm going to do mine in English and there it is. 
 That's basically it it will find your test location. 
 Basically or determine your location and it'll show you the nearest testing centers that are around. 
 The reason I'm getting an error message is that the last day in February today but if I go ahead for 
 March I should be able to find testing centers all over London. 
 So there we go. 
 So now that you know how to book your exam what's next. 
 We can go on and get the certified developer associate or certified CIS office administrator associate. 
 I would recommend doing either one of those or both. 
 Once you've got the solutions architect associate you can go on and do these solutions architect professional. 
 I wouldn't recommend doing Solutions Architect professional until you've passed your solutions architect 
 associate. 
 But you can do that now if you want or you can go on and do the specialties the specialty certificates 
 are a networking security big data machine learning as well as Alexa and the next thing I would ask 
 you to do is subscribe to our weekly TV show it's called AWB this week it's on YouTube as well as on 
 the cloud platform. 
 It's a great way to stay up to date with AWB assets five minutes or less and we just tell you what AWB 
 have rolled out this week. 
 It's a really simple way of keeping up to date with everything. 
 So once you pass your exam please tag me on LinkedIn or tweet me. 
 This allows me to know that everyone's passing and I also makes me really really happy as well. 
 And if you want to meet us in person we're at AWB summits all around the world or we're always at reinvent 
 as well. 
 So thank you so much for doing this course and keep being awesome cloud gurus.