So right now we have two virtual networks that are set up to talk to each other over a peering relationship.
So new test one and new test two can communicate with each other and coincidentally they're both in
the same region.
But what happens when we have a virtual network that is halfway around the world in Japan.
Can we set up a peering relationship with Japan.
It's going to go into new test 3 which is in Japan and I'm going to go down to pairings and I'm going
to add appearing.
Now we're going to set this up to three to one.
So we're going to connect new test three to new test one and I'm going to select the virtual network
we can see new test one available from the dropdown.
And this is going to be called new test one two three because it's on the other end of the connection.
For now we're going to leave the default settings so we'll allow to a traffic and we won't have forward
a traffic going to click Okay.
Again the deployments are made into new test three into new test one.
Now new test two is not affected.
Also important notice nothing on the network is brought down that there's no disruption to the existing
systems were able to open up the communication but we're not actually negatively reflecting the victims
or anything like that.
OK.
So now we have very easily set up a connection between Japan and e U.S. two.
So between three and one.
Now notice three can talk to one and two can talk to one but two cannot talk to three.
Now what can we do we can obviously setup a pairing relationship between three and two.
So that's one of the options is to make this into a triangle effectively where every virtual network
has two piers.
The other option we have is to set up a changing relationship.
So we already have three talking to one and one talking to two.
So why couldn't three talk to two by traveling the traffic over one.
Well it certainly could.
When we were setting up our peering to go into new test 1 and into pairings let's look at one to two.
We actually did not allow forwarded traffic.
So if we enabled this setting this would be allow for the traffic from two to one.
In actual fact we want traffic from one to two.
So I guess I go into here into pairings.
So enable forwarded traffic from one to two.
So any traffic from three that wants to travel to two we can enable this in this section.
Now we also do need to rename it on the reverse as well in order for two to talk to three.
So I'm going to save that and we're going to go back into the into one into pairings
and we're going to enable traffic to travel from I guess it's from 1 to 3.
So we have to be very careful here with this the the wording so allow for the traffic from 1 to 3.
I can enable that.
And now we have traffic travelling from two to three and from three to two with one in the middle.
And that's a changing relationship
it's probably probably important to talk about the pricing because although creating these virtual networks
is free.
So I created three virtual networks offer free in every subscription is allowed up to 50 virtual networks
in total.
Then we do have pricing for pairing.
So just having the two East U.S. two regions connect to virtual networks connected to each other.
That is one cent per gigabyte in terms of traffic.
That's not that cheap actually because it's storage is two cents per gigabyte for a whole month.
And we're talking about data being 1 cent per gigabyte in a communication.
So when you set up stuff in terms of peering you're actually introducing bandwidth charges.
Also important notice it charges on both ends.
So to you send traffic from vignette 1 to Vienna to Vienna.
1 incurs a 1 cent from the outbound in Vienna to incurs 1 cent on the inbound so it's actually 2 cents
for a single burst of traffic from one never to another.
Now if we're getting talking about global so now we're outside of the region
then pricing is different.
And it's also based on zones.
So if we're allowed to the bottom we can see there's a frequently asked questions and it asks what is
the different zones.
So we were dealing with EU US too and that was in zone 1 and we were talking about Japan and that's
in zone 2.
So what we're talking about is data that's travelling between zone 1 and Zone 2.
So if we scroll back up we can see under global v net peering that we have a data transfer coming into
United States at three point five cents per gigabyte and traveling outbound at a 9 cents per gigabyte
to Japan.
So we're looking at something like twelve point five cents in order for data to travel across those
two zones.
So it says if data has been transferred from zone once a zone to which is our exact scenario then you're
occurring outbound from zone 1 and inbound into zone 2.
So it's about toll since a gigabyte which is way more than the entire region pricing.
So that's something important to keep in mind when you're talking about transferring data across a peering
relationship.
And and that's just the reality of it I guess.
