So in this video we're going to talk about VPN ads or virtual private networks later on in the video.
We're also going to talk about Express wrote a virtual private network as the name implies is a connection
between either your computer and a virtual network within Azure or a whole network of computers and
a virtual network with an Azure VPN certainly exist outside of Azure.
You may be using a VPN for work right now or you may have one installed at home or use a work laptop
that requires you to connect to a VPN before you can do work.
So it's quite a common setup.
It's been that way for a while now the advantage of this is you might have significant data services
files stuff with an Azure but you don't want that obviously just to be open and exposed to the world.
And so you can imagine setting up resources within Azure setting your firewall and NSG restrictions
pretty tightly so that there's no outsiders allowed in but you can use a virtual private network which
is pretty safe and secure to connect into this device and then you're exposed to those resources as
if they were local to you.
So that's sort of the advantage of having a VPN is basically using resources that are pretty remote
securely.
Now the private part of a virtual private network means that the data between yourself and the remote
network is encrypted so it does travel over the public Internet.
So if you're working from home even if you're working for your company from home it is using your internet
connection to your ISP.
And so that's traveling encrypted and nobody can read the data between you and the outside network.
Now in order to do that there needs to be a you know encryption VPN client on your on your computer
and a remote virtual network gateway in order to do the decryption.
Now within Azure there's a couple of different options for big plans once called you point to site VPN.
The other is called a site to site VPN.
We're also going to talk about Express wrote in and finally express wrote direct which are private connections
don't travel over the Internet so let's talk about point to site VPN first.
We can see this diagram that we have your computer whether it's a laptop your home computer your office
computer that is sitting there and it is able to travel a traffic is able to travel from that computer
into Azure privately and securely in order to do that.
You need a VPN client software that's installed on that computer and also a virtual network gateway
that is remotely installed within Azure.
You can figure those things to work together securely and then you're able to set up that connection.
Now this connection is temporary.
You have to connect to it do your work and then disconnect from it.
Typically while you're using your computer you can use the public Internet.
So you are actually using a different network to connect to the Internet and a private network to connect
to Azure some workplaces if you're depending on the type of software that you're using will restrict
the access to the public Internet while you're connected privately depends on how your software is configured
so in this case you've got your computer.
Now you can have multiple points to site VPN so you could have the VPN client your coworker could have
the VPN client someone else has a VPN client.
In fact if you think about a workplace anyone who works from home typically has a point to site VPN
because they're not connecting all the devices on their home network they're only connecting that individual
device so you can't have multiple points IP pins.
But it is not an efficient method for VPN it's really good for one time use.
There is a temporary ness to the connection but it's not persistent and having to log in every time
you want to use something remotely is a bit of an inconvenience.
And so the site to site VPN is perhaps the solution to that if you can connect an entire office network
into Azure.
All of those computers on the office network can connect into the resources on Azure.
They don't have to log in.
It's persistent it's not temporary etc..
Now the cost there is you need a physical VPN device on your office.
So either you already have one and you can just set it up or you need to acquire one.
And Microsoft provides a list of the devices that they support but it's pretty standard.
So you do need a physical device within your office the device within Azure is a virtual device as is
most cloud services.
So you just go in there you can figure it you going to the marketplace you can find a virtual network
Gateway and then you can consider setting up either a point a site or a site to site using this device
now sites the site has additional features beyond point to site.
And that is it supports redundancy.
Now when we're talking about availability of a solution if you have applications running within your
private within your corporate network and data and other things that are dependent running with an Azure
Well that makes the connection between your company network and Azure more critical.
And so having a single VPN device and a single gateway a single connection those are all single points
of failure.
Now by default Azure actually sets up double connections.
So if you have a single device in your company and a single Gateway you're getting tech technically
two connections between those two locations so there is some redundancy in case one of those connections
fails the other connection is still active but they can go further.
So you can have multiple devices.
So if you do have multiple gateways within your company you can set up multiple gateways and have that
connect into the single virtual network gateway in Azure on the opposite side.
You can have your single gateway device in your company connect to multiple virtual network gateways.
And finally for the most redundancy you can have multiple gateway devices and multiple network gateways
connecting to each other that way if any of these devices fail then your connection continues and whatever
vital service that runs between your office and Azure continues
now.
Site the site is great for most circumstances but it does run and run over the public Internet.
There is some speed restrictions and of course you know if you might need to get faster speeds and lower
latency and maybe the fact it runs over the public Internet that's a concern.
So there's a security concern.
Microsoft provides a thing called Express wrote express route is a private connection between your location
and Azure using an ISP and exchange provider.
OK.
So you're still encrypted but it's also running over a private fiber private connection.
You do need to work with a private communications provider to set it up.
In the case of express wrote there's a middleman but basically it's a faster connection.
There's some more costs to it.
If you've got a lot of traffic traveling within those two locations then it might be the better solution.
Now we're looking at Express route.
There's actually a couple of what Microsoft calls peering.
So depending on the service that you're connecting to you're going to run over a different network.
Now if you're connecting to like Outlook office 365 the Azure portal dynamics whatever public service
that you're connected to well that's called Microsoft period and that'll run out to a DMZ or out's external
network in order to connect to Microsoft.
But for private peering when you've got you know VPN ends and visa and virtual networks and virtual
machines and databases running within that that's over a private pier and that'll connect your devices
themselves and the networks themselves privately not over the DMZ.
There's various pricing you can go between fifty five dollars a month of five thousand dollars a month
but you're going to pay for traffic if you're willing to get unlimited traffic that costs more of course
and that runs between 300 hours a month and fifty thousand dollars a month.
