So let's talk about a relatively new feature of Azure express wrote that's called Express road direct
now express wrote requires you to go through an Internet service provider to connect to the Azure network
but through express road direct you can actually connect directly with Microsoft to apply to connect
directly to their global Microsoft backbone.
Microsoft currently has around 150 edge locations around the world that's outside of the regions that
they have you know virtual machines hosted.
And so if you're close to one of those 450 edge locations you can just get your servers directly onto
the Microsoft Network through express road direct one of the advantages of course is you're going to
get even higher speeds.
So instead of having to go through an Internet Exchange provider to get your computer servers on to
the Azure network you go directly to Microsoft and it gets you some blazing speeds.
So the two speeds available first breaststroke direct are the 10 gigabits per second and 100 gigabits
per second.
Obviously that's a huge jump in 100 megabits per second is a massive amount of speed.
Now the way this is provision is slightly different when you go through regular express route you're
getting a circuit what's called an express road circuit at a provision speed.
So if you've got a one gigabit per second Express road circuit that's the single circuit and that's
the speed that you've got with the express road direct your provisioning 10 gigabits or 100 megabits
per second and you get to build up multiple circuits.
So within that 10 gigabits per second theoretically you could get a single five gigabits per second
a couple of two gigabits per second and a one gigabit per second.
Take those four lines together to build up to your tank megabits per second and you end up with four
circuits.
That means you can connect them to different networks for different purposes for the hundred gigabits
per second.
You can take.
You can take that hundred gigabits directly in a single circuit or you can put in some multiple 10 gigabit
per second circuits in there etc..
Now why do you need 100 gigabits per second.
Well the most obvious answer is for those situations where you have massive data ingestion requirements
into Azure.
So let's say that you have a massive data leak sitting within Microsoft Azure.
You've got some big data services running that is processing data in your data leak and you need that
data to be flowing from your network into Azure and you need that hundred gigabits per second connection
to get all that data in there.
Well that would be one example of of what you would use an expression direct for now do keep in mind
that the 100 megabits per second might sound great but that's a very specialized network hardware.
The hundred gigabit per second standard for the Internet only came about less than 10 years ago.
And so you're going to need to have hardware that's connects you know to get onto this hundred gigabits
per second network that operates at those speeds.
The same is for the 10 gigabit per second circuits as well.
You have to have a 10 year but second circuit in your network internally in order to connect to that
speeds.
Otherwise you're at no point to doing that.
