So in this first video we're gonna talk about encryption specifically around databases and the outer
storage account on screen.
It's a list of the database options that Microsoft offers.
I mean there's a whole bunch of other ones as well but these are the main ones the Sequel server running
in a virtual machine as your sequel database and the single data warehouse and the my sequel postscript
sequel managed data solutions as well as Cosmos TV.
That's a lot.
Now let's talk about the way that this data is encrypted so Microsoft Azure has something called transparent
data encryption or.
You should get to know what this is for the test.
When when something is used using transparent data encryption that means that the data is stored to
the physical disk in an encrypted state.
But when you read from that data and when you write to the data using those databases you are not dealing
with encryption.
So it's transparent.
So you do a select statement the data comes back to you unencrypted you do an insert statement you insert
into the database unencrypted but then as your sequel will encrypted as it gets the database.
This is done by Microsoft Azure Azure manages the keys and doesn't does the encryption and decryption
to the disk.
Now the one thing to note is the master database you know when you create a database you get master
databases tempt bees and then you're user databases the master database is not encrypted.
And so this is where the information around encryption is stored TV is turned on by default and it can
be switched off.
You really should know what you're doing and why you'd want to switch off encryption for your SQL database.
Now I will just touch on this briefly but there is this concept called Bring your own key.
So by by default when you create a database and a TDD turned on Microsoft generates a key you know public
private key for that and we'll take care of the encryption.
But let's say for some governance reason or some you know security reason you want to use your own keys
so you can generate a key with your own certificate authority provided in the azure key vault and then
sequel database and single data warehouse will use the key from the key vault when it does the encryption
operations so you can then change the key revoke the key etc..
So there is this Bring Your Own key option now the great thing about replication on encryption in this
manner is that when you do these operations like copying a database the encryption doesn't get in the
way.
So you can geo replicate a database from East U.S. to Western Europe.
And that data will still be readable in Europe because the TV has been taken care of.
You can do geo restore so do a backup an Eastern U.S. and restore in Western Europe.
And that database is accessible point in time restores.
If you delete the database and later restore it those operations are are supported and you're not going
to have an issue when you do an export of the database.
Let's say you want to go to your as your equal database and just say export data.
That data is not encrypted.
So the backpack is the format.
It's basically a Zip format with some extra metadata backpack format files are not encrypted.
So you've got to be careful that you're not doing database exports and storing those files in unencrypted
locations otherwise you are introducing a security hole into your encrypted database.
The other option for Azure storage accounts is called Azure storage encryption or SS e storage service
encryption.
This is enabled by default for new accounts.
Now if you have an account from years and years ago it may be that it was not enabled when you created
it.
But for any new accounts created order under NRM you've got secure storage encryption enabled and it
cannot be disabled.
So Microsoft will store anything you put in the storage account in an encrypted format on to their physical
hard disk.
OK so if you're going to do a backup a backpack file an Azure export from the database etc. Then if
you stored in those storage accounts then that storage account is encrypted itself not the date not
the files but the storage account.
It does also support to bring your own key for unmanaged disk when you're dealing with managed disk
then it's encrypted but Microsoft manages the keys.
