So let's talk about Azure key vault now as your key vault.
You'll find to be at the center of a lot of Microsoft's security solutions these days because the Azure
key Balt really is where you're supposed to store both secrets and certificates and in a secure manner.
So it's called a one stop shop for protecting secrets.
And what kind of secrets can you protect.
Well you can protect any of your user I.D. and passwords that your application needs to use to access
external services.
You can protect access keys for API is et cetera.
You can protect your certificates themselves and other other types of encryption keys.
So essentially there's lots of ways you can protect secrets within Azure key vault as your key vault
follows the Phipps Federal Information Processing standard 140 dash to level two.
This is an approach of centralizing your secrets.
So instead of having every application having a web config file or an application config file and in
that file contains all your passwords and all your API secret keys cetera then what is a better approach
is to put your secrets in a spot where very very very few people have access to it.
You can within Azure key vault you can monitor who is accessing the the secrets you're going to get.
Log files from that you can run them analyze them after the fact to see when secrets were access system
by whom etc. This is a more secure way of operating.
So the Azure key vault should be part of your solution when you're developing large scale solutions
with an Azure also allows you to simplify management of your secrets and your your certificates and
keys instead of having 20 different applications that have a connection string containing your database
password in it you can have the database password in the key vault and then the connection string you'd
have to modify your code obviously but then you don't have to modify your application if you need to
update this.
It also prevents every single developer and every single support person from knowing your database password.
Here is an example of how that can work.
So you have on the left the Azure key vault and only a very limited number of people have access into
the key vault.
They can create secrets they can manage it they can authorize it etc. So on the left the power is called
Perry's or he's a he's the key holder.
Then you have a developer who can create applications it doesn't matter whether it's in dot net or it's
in a mobile app or API or something they're going to use special code your URL to access the key vault
key vault is going to see if that application is authorized to operate that way it does that by because
the application then goes through Azure Active Directory for authentication we're going to talk about
managed service identities later in this section but basically the applications are authenticated and
that authentication gives it access to the secrets in the key vault.
