Now the exam requirements also talk about <u>**action groups**</u>.
Now when we were talking about alerts couple of videos ago we we briefly touched on it.
I didn't get too deep into it but if you see at the top here there's a mini I'm saying manage action
groups.
We created an action group when we created our first alert which is to email the owners of the alert
happening so you'll see that when I go in to monitor action groups I've got the one already there.
So in this case
the e mail admin is basically an email service if I look at the details.
It's basically email resource manager role owner.
OK.
And I can give it a name call it email me.
Probably try it with no space no spaces
all right.
So I have this e-mail me.
We can create another action that also happens so multiple actions can occur when an event fires.
And so in this case it can be the call function.
Now I don't I don't have a function set up properly.
I don't think.
But you can see the actions beyond e-mail as Smith's voice call.
You can call a function.
You can trigger logic or just even random web hook.
So if you have a service listening to a U.R.L. an H GDP trigger then you can basically just have this
function be called.
OK fire often on a mission going to go into the Azure function switch I do have a function Resource
Group.
This isn't specifically set up.
So you'll see here I can choose the function.
Unfortunately don't have any H GDP.
There's one HP triggered functions so I can basically say when.
When this web app is stopped.
Then this is going to e-mail me.
And it's also going to fire off this function call.
OK.
So some kind of other automation that happens I can click save.
And so now I have to action.
So this is the concept of an action group.
I can also apply this to multiple alerts.
So the fact that this is a standalone thing that this email and means and call function is going to
occur and then I signed that to the alerts that I want this to happen.
So it's almost a disconnection between the alert and then the action group that fires when the alert
triggers.
