So in this section we're gonna talk about some identity security services particularly multi factor
authentication.
Now what is a multi factor authentication.
Now one of the big challenges with security these days is that people have user I.D. and passwords and
no matter how complicated your password is if it's 16 digits contains letters numbers symbols capitals
and funny foreign letter characters in the same password.
If that password gets lost someone breaks into your computer and steals it or something becomes easy
to guess etc. that allows somebody to log in as you and basically you take over what it is that you
have control over.
So a user the password is not entirely secure simply because it can be lost.
Now when you add another factor to it then that becomes even more secure in this case when you're talking
about multi factor authentication it's either having a device whether it could be your phone or in the
old days we used to have key fobs or randomized numbers on them or it could be a fingerprint or an eye
scan etc. or retinal scan.
So the multi-party authentication refers to having more than just your password as a way of authentication
and that's why it becomes more and more common for you to require your phone and either you get an SS
message you get an email or you get a randomized number in an application that you have to type in in
order to log in just beyond your password now.
Microsoft Azure Active Directory does support this.
Either you have to pay for it.
So it is available as an add on service.
It costs a dollar 40 per month per user.
So there is a billing model associated with that.
Unless you're a premium Active Directory user.
So if you are running on a premium plan then it is included in that plan.
Now how do you turn on Active Directory.
So in this particular case I go into users.
Now I have a mixture of native users Azure Active Directory and invited users invited users in this
case R B to B.
These are these are Gmail accounts in this particular case email went out to them and they accepted
and they are part of my trajectory but they are not active directory members because their email address
is in the control domain.
So we have this new user and guest user concept so when some in the users section of my active directory
you see it says multifactorial indication at the top.
When I click this it's actually going to take me out of the portal into a separate Web site.
So I'm going to zoom in a little bit and we can see it is a Microsoft Web site but it's basically completely
different than the portal and it's open to the new tab on my browser action now out of my five users
remember two of them are actually active directory users and two of them are Gmail users which are B2B
so I can actually only enable multi factor authentication for two of those users.
You can't enable it for users that are not part of your active directory is as needed users so chosen
the two of them and I can click enable now it says about enabling multi factor
basically they're going to have to sign in through the web browser in order to get a sign up for multicultural
authentication.
If they access your services through their app through some other method it's not might not actually
work.
So here's a link to how you how these individual users Joe Green and John Doe can sign up for MFA but
I control them and so I can actually enable multi factor.
So now I've enabled multi factor authentication on to users in my account and that's basically how easy
it is.
Now if I remember this is a separate time I can close the tab.
Go back to the portal.
Now keep in mind that there is an impact on the support basically for your active directory.
So now that you've got users that are forced to use a multi factor authentication what you're going
to end up with doing is people have their I.D. or have their password but they don't have their phone
their battery has died.
They lose their phone or their they change their phone number but they didn't migrate their multi factor
authentication.
So there is another point of support.
Once you make it more complicated for people to log in but remember security is not about can beats
security in some ways is the opposite of convenience because the more convenient you make something
the less secure generally is you're going to have to introduce things like this.
Having to have your phone to answer in as a mass text or a app in order to log into your system as a
way to increase security.
