So let's talk about some of the settings that you can get for multi factor communication.
We're back at the Active Directory overview screen and if I scrolled down under security I can see there's
an MFA settings tab under security when I go in there it's a whole new section of the of the site.
Let's talk about fraud alerts.
First they're going to click fraud alert now by default fraud alerts are turned off.
I have it turned on here because I was testing.
But basically if you enable fraud alerts This allows your users to report it.
If they do receive a two step verification request.
So if they get that s a message or that email asking them to enter the number and they didn't initiate
that request then they can click a link or they can call a number and basically say they they're not
they're getting this for not a reason that they initiate.
If you do enable fraud alerts then you can actually automatically block those users.
So somebody is user I.D. and password has been compromised and now they're getting the third factor
authentication alert.
They say it wasn't me.
And so you can basically block their account.
OK.
Now the blocked accounts go under this block on block users list.
So a blocked user will no longer receive multi factor authentication requests.
So once they reported the fraud and you have that turned on then they're going to go end up into this
blocked list and it's going to take 90 days three whole months for them to go unblocked.
So again it's a support issue where you're gonna have to go in here and unblock people and maybe force
them to change their passwords etc. So fraud alerts basically lead to people getting their account shut
down.
But that's obviously a more secure thing in terms of detecting when people are trying to hack into your
accounts.
