All right.
So we're back to looking at multilateral authentication in this video.
We're going to talk about the methods that users can use to authenticate themselves.
So we're on our Active Directory we're going to go into MFA.
Now I should have said earlier there are two types of MFA servers.
There is one type of server where you can download the server software and have that running within
your own environment and another type of MFA which is cloud based monthly.
So when we were configuring those users for MFA it took us to a separate Web site and that was the cloud
based MFA so let's talk about the verification methods for those users.
I say figure club based MFA takes me back to the second Web site.
Now we have our our users that we already saw how to enable MFP.
And there's another tab called service settings.
Now there are a number of settings up here but we're going to scroll down to the verification options.
You'll see that by default we have four verification options.
One is a phone call so they can actually be receive a phone call that says enter the following number.
Another is a text message.
Myspace message third is a mobile app.
So they would have a verification app that would basically set a notification to them.
And the fourth one is that they're going to use that app that has a code in it that they have to then
enter into the the log in case.
So there are four methods available for users to authenticate.
Now it's possible that you don't want the you know the apps to be involved at all that the only method
you accept for multi-platform vindication is a text message.
That's that's entirely up to you.
But as long as you accept the security of phone calls text messages and mobile apps running on their
trusted device then all four methods are equally secure.
But of course if you've got concerns that the SIM card is going to be spoofed then they're going to
have to only then keep through their mobile app and not through a traditional phone method.
Oh that would be up to you.
And so that would be settings through here within configure cloud based MFA server.
Now I will talk about we we were looking at conditional access earlier and there is another way other
than configuring conditional access we could enable trusted eyepiece were multifactorial education is
skipped for requests from users on your own intranet.
So if you have an office let's go back to my I.P. here if you have an office and you can set a set of
ranges IP ranges in see IDR format then that will skip MFA for users that are connected to your application
through that network that it could save for that.
