So talking about Active Directory.
Really we've been talking about identity.
Right.
This is identity as a service.
Also it could be authentication as a service.
Basically we have users those users have passwords.
If we have MFA in a month then they have to provide a code.
And those three pieces of information basically prove to us that they are who they say they are.
And that's the authentication aspect of it.
But once they're authenticated what can they do.
What is there a 40.
What is their authorization.
And so we haven't to this point talked about authorization to do that.
We're gonna get out of Active Directory and we're gonna go into this case a Resource Group.
Now when you go into any particular resource within Azure you will see typically this access control
setting.
Not only is it there for the resource group level but if we were to go down into a resource itself which
hopefully this won't take too long.
So even within a virtual machine level we do have this access control setting go back up to the Resource
Group level but go into access control.
This is where it allows us to control access to who to whoever is going to be able to get into this
resource group who's going to be able to see the resources who's going to be able to modify anything
add new resources or even in the case of owners create new users who can then access those things.
So check access right.
So we can basically say let's see as if if John Doe I've got a user named John Doe let's see what John
Doe's permissions are John Doe has no permissions right.
He's not allowed he's not denied.
Basically he would not be able to see any of these resources because nothing allows him to do it.
But what if we wanted John Doe to be able to access those virtual machines or to access the logic app
in this case this what we want to do is we want to add a role assignment now and go into this from all
assignments here.
By default you're going to have some role assignments.
Some of them are going to be inherited from the subscription level.
So we can go into this actually go into the subscription level and look at the access controls in their
and see them all here being inherited.
I don't have any access that's been specifically granted to this resource group that is not just inherited
from above.
I'm my main account is in their cloud Dan as a cost cost tracking application.
Some of these are automatic.
So the service principle and things like that automation accounts that create accounts for themselves
so let's say we wanted to add John Doe to have access.
Now first we have to decide what role we want to give John Doe.
The three main roles that you need to understand are owner contributor and reader.
You can see that there are dozens of other rules and we'll get into them in a second.
But the top three owner contributor and reader are our the reader role as the name suggests just gives
you read only access to those resources.
That means that if you logged into the portal you could see the Resource Group.
You can go into the resource group.
You can see the resources there.
You can click into the resources and you can see them but you can't make any changes.
You can't stop them.
You can't edit them you can't delete them read only access is the reader the reader role now the contributor
role is like a full set of permissions.
You can go into a resource group in this case create resources delete resources edit resources.
You just can't give that permission to other users.
So you know you're you're a full on manager of these resources but you can't make your friend a manager
as well.
The owner permission is the most powerful in this more than anything is the keys to the castle.
So do not hand out owner permission to your account or to specific resource groups unless you really
know what you're doing.
But the owner permission basically allows you to manage everything just like a contributor and you can
also grant access to other users.
And so your friend can also get contributor access and your other friend can also get on ET etc. So
that's reader contributor and owner.
Now as we scroll down these lists of other predefined roles you can see very similar naming like backup
reader backup contributor backup operator C D and endpoint contributor CDM point reader etc. There's
a lot of contributor in reader rules against many of the services inside of Azure event grid document
TB log analytics etc. So we basically have the ability to give very fine grained permissions to individuals
using role based access control I'm going to give our friend contributor access John Doe.
So I've chosen contributor and I'm gonna say I'm assigned to a user and that user is John Doe and it's
selected John Doe.
So once I save it it's going to do a deployment that basically adds John Doe and we can see John Doe
a user has been given contributor access only to this resource group so if we go back to check access
and we check a john doe's access now we can see he's got a contributor permissions specifically assigned
to this group.
And so pretty much that's a rule based access control.
Now we could obviously going here and if we wanted to ensure that somebody no matter what permissions
they have that can be inherited.
Let's say that I want my other account specifically to be denied access.
So my my other my other account here is denied access as a contributor.
It's almost an opposite.
It blocks users from performing specific actions even if they've got actual access through some other
way.
So Scott Duffy was a contributor.
So that's basically role based access control.
It can happen at the resource level at the resource group level.
You talk to.
We saw basically going into a subscription.
We've got access control options at the subscription level so you can just for you know in this case
I'm showing you someone who works for me has contributor access to my entire account and they can create
resources and I've given them permission to use them.
And so you can see that basically this is one way of ensuring that people can either have access or
be denied access.
So that's the for authority essentially to do things as opposed to the authentication which is taken
care of by Azure Active Directory.
