Now, in this section of the course, we're going to be talking about the overall topic of governance
now, governance in general is a term that effectively means management or leadership and in any organization
is usually a hierarchical organization where you report to a boss, your boss reports to a boss, and
it goes up the chain to the CEO.
And the CEO themselves often reports to a board of directors or shareholders.
Each of those layers is going to set rules and policies that they expect the people below them to follow.
Now, how this relates to Microsoft Azure is that your company might set certain restrictions on who
can have access to what resources.
And instead of just trusting people that they're going to follow the rule, you can actually go into
Azure and apply these restrictions.
Now, it's not just in terms of what they have access to, in terms of like you can or cannot see that
a resource exists, but also the types of resources that they can work with, the organizational structure
of those resources and so on.
So we're going to talk about governance.
Now, the first topic of this is how resources are organized.
And throughout this course, we've seen that resources are placed into resource groups.
Now, resource groups are a convenient folder like structure where you can add resources, keep them
organized together, and then delete them as a group.
But you can also set permissions at the resource group level.
So if you want your developers to only have access to the developer resource group and they can do whatever
they want inside of that resource group, you are able to set a policy using role based access control
to ensure that they only have access to that.
Now, beyond just resource groups, you can have multiple subscriptions for organization.
This makes sense in a couple of different context.
I worked in organizations in the past where we had a production subscription and we had a development
akua subscription.
Now, you said that before that the subscription is the billing unit.
It's sort of all of the resources that gets consumed by a subscription, get charged to that subscription.
And so keeping production and development separate could be a convenient thing for your accounting team
in order to be able to tell which resources are going towards your clients and which resources are just
the cost of doing business.
For example, you can also split out your organization into two or three or more subscriptions based
on the business unit.
So you may have a retail business unit and a wholesale business unit and a general administration business
unit, and you can separate out subscriptions along that way and those become the cost expenses of those
businesses.
Now, that would be great on its own, but Microsoft has introduced a hierarchical structure for subscriptions
and those are called management groups.
And so you can have your subscriptions belonging to a management group and those manager groups themselves
can belong to other management groups and you can nest these things.
So if your organization, let's say, has 50 subscriptions, you can organize them not just to a single
management group, but into multiple management groups.
The purpose of the management groups then is so that the people who are at those levels of governance
can set policies that affect all of the subscriptions that belong to that group.
So if you have, let's say, in terms of business units, one I.T. governance team in one business unit
can make one set of policies and then the other I.T. governance team and another business unit can make
a different set of policies.
So manager groups served that purpose.
The final concept?
We'll talk about his blueprints, which are ways of creating subscriptions that already have all of
the customized roles and those kind of components all put together your policies, et cetera.
So in this section of the course, we're going to be creating majeur groups.
We're going to be creating blueprints, and we're going to be playing around with role based access
control to limit people.
And we'll talk about policies as well.
