So we've talked about Azure Active Directory previously in this course, and you should be familiar
with this users section of Azure ad, I've created three users Joe Smith, Mel Green and Sally Smith.
Now, what I want to show you is how we can assign roles to these individuals and then restrict their
access to various parts of our Azure subscription based on their roles.
So if we go into Sally Smith, we can see that there are a couple of different role based settings now
under assigned roles.
This is an Azure ad related role.
So this is what a person might have access to as being within the Azure ad system.
When we're talking about Azure resources, we're talking about Azure role assignments and you see the
subscription icon.
So right now, Sally doesn't have any role assignments within the Azure.
That means that if she was to log in, she wouldn't be able to to do anything.
She doesn't have any any permissions that have been identified.
Let's go back and go under the subscription here and go into my default subscription.
Now we can see we go into access control and we can see who has access to what parts of my Azure account.
So if I enter a Sally's name.
I can see that Sally has no positive or negative assignments at all, my friend Joe, on the other hand,
I have given him contributor access to my account, which means that he can read and write any resource
across the my entire account.
And Mel would be similar to Sally.
He doesn't have access to anything, so what do we want to do in terms of assigning these people to
these settings?
Now we can see that we go into roles that Azure provides dozens and dozens and dozens of built-In roles
relating to resources within a subscription.
So we've got the basic ones.
The three basic roles at the top level are owner, contributor and reader.
Now, a reader is the simplest because it's a read only permission.
Someone with the read your permission can go into Azure, go into the resource group, look at the resources,
but not be able to make any changes to them.
They've got no modify permissions at all.
They can't create resources going up.
The contributor role is similar to the reader, except they can make changes to resources and they can
create resources.
So someone with general contributor permissions is basically free to go in and do almost anything except
at the Azure ad level where they're not able to create accounts and the contributor would not be able
to give permissions to anyone else.
They wouldn't have access to this screen and be able to modify the permissions of others.
Now, the owner permission is like a contributor, except they do have the ability to give permissions
to others.
That's the big difference between the two.
And you can see as we scroll down, there are literally dozens and dozens of them having to do with
Azure Arc Azure event hubs, Azure Cooper, Nettie's each individual service generally has reader contributor
type permissions, CDN, endpoint reader contributor, CDN profile reader contributor.
And it just goes on and on.
We also have the ability to create custom roles and that's what I'm going to do.
I'm going to put Sally, Mel and Joe into custom roles and then we can basically assign those roles
to various permissions.
So let's create both developer and administrator roles, I click over to role assignments and I go under
and and I do have the ability to add a custom role.
So I'm going to say custom role given a name, I'm going to call it dev role.
And these are all developers.
I'm going to start from scratch for this one.
Now, in terms of permissions, we are basically assigning what this person can do and not do person
who has a deverall.
So I want to give them full webapp access.
I mean, we're not going to get to detailed here, but go into Web apps.
And what I want to do is I want to just click the box where it says that they have full permissions.
Answers a bit slow right now, so I click this box and now this dev role is going to have the permission
to read, write, delete, create, modify all of these permissions service plans relating to Web apps
and observers plans, say ADD.
And let's say that's it now, assignable scope's, the the relevant word here is assignable.
So where does this role where can this role be assigned?
This is at the subscription level.
Can this role be assigned to specific resource groups?
It could be at or have to add assignable scope's.
So I'm going to I'm going to add additional scopes where this can be assigned and I'm going to basically.
I'm a member moved that I'm going to put this resource group additionally so I can give this I can give
somebody the devil at the suppression level or I can give them to them at a specific resource group
level.
This is basically our deverall, we're going to do the same thing for the admin role, so I'm going
to call this admin role and this will be all administrators.
In terms of emissions and this particular person, I'm going to give them a virtual machine permissions.
OK, so if we look at so the Microsoft compute permission and once again, I'm not going to read through
the individual permissions, but we're going to give the administrator full access to all available
Microsoft compute permissions.
Again, the scope here is a situation by default, I'm going to add my dev group.
SCOP.
Next.
And we'll say create.
So we've created two new roles, The Devil and the Mineral, now we'll see them at the subscription
level, are also at the resource group level.
So let's say we wanted to go to the resource group, the dev group.
Right now, neither Sally Normal nor in Sellar Normal is going to have access to this.
I go under the group, I can go under access control.
I can even search for Sally here.
And we'll see if she's got no assignments, which means no access and Mel is going to be similar.
Now, what we can do since we have less controls here, we have these are some rules that we just created
a mineral in DEVERALL is we could assign Sally and Mel to their particular roles.
So if we said ADM assignment, we're going to go to the to the deverall and we're going to find Sally
in the list here.
And we're going to see that at this one group, Sally's going to have Web app permissions, and that
means that she would have no other permissions anywhere else within our account except for this one
group.
We can say the same thing for Mel.
We go to the admin.
And General.
And we can choose Mel from the list and now we're saying Mel has the Microsoft compute permissions on
the same group and they have no other permission.
So that's how rule based access control can be used to limit the permissions to individuals in roles,
to specific resources, areas of the site reads and right permissions, etc..
