So let's get a little bit complicated here and let's create a role, brand new role, that the main
feature of this role is that they are not allowed to delete a Web app.
I'm going to call it don't delete webapp Gonta permissions.
And instead of adding permissions, I want to exclude permissions.
And so I'm going to go Web app, web apps.
So we won't let them delete the App Service plan, which is probably a good thing, and we won't let
them Tinder sites, I think there we go.
We won't let them delete the Web app.
OK, those are the two denials for this permission.
And if I say review and create.
So.
What we've done is we've created almost like a negative permission, they don't have any specific permissions
to anything, but they can't delete stuff.
Now we're going to get really freaky and go back to that resource group.
Dev group access control rule assignment's.
And we're going to basically assign the don't delete role to Sally, so she's going to have both the
developer role and the don't delete rule.
So there's Sally I'm going to save.
And now the question is, what can Sally do if we were to create a Web app?
One role gives her permission to delete it.
Another rule doesn't give her permission to leave it.
What do you think's going to happen?
Let's try that.
So I actually have a Web app and the dev group and I'm going to switch over to Sally's account so I
can say signing with different account.
Sally Smith, I'm already signed in using her account, go home now you can see that she's only got
access to resources.
There's the dev group and then there's the app within it.
So to go into the dev group and here is the Web app.
All right.
So I should be able to stop restart to all the actions on this.
Because I have that permission, but one of them that was explicitly denied is the daily action.
So I do have to type in the name, and this is where Azur is kind of weird, I typed in the name, it
hasn't told me that I can't do it, but it's trying to find out what are the related resources delegate
deleted and the resource that will get deleted is the Salli Test webapp.
Well, it sort of says loading and it's going to stay loading for a while.
I'm going to try to delete it.
And let me do it so even though the user interface wasn't functioning properly, it's still let me perform
the action.
And so having won permission, that allows something in one role and another permission that explicitly
denies something in a different role, you're still allowed to do it.
