So in this video, we're going to take one of these many predefined policies and we're going to assign
it into our account, so I'm for the policy I'm going to choose is called the allowed virtual machine
size scuzz.
I typed the letters Eskew into the search and I can see there's three options and one of them is the
one that I want.
Now, I'm going to scroll into the JSON here and we can see that the policy rule is here.
We're going to try to read it.
It says if all of the resource type is equal to Microsoft, our compute such virtual machines and the
virtual machine pseudonym is not in the predefined list of allowed Skewes then deny.
So this policy is basically going to stop deployment of any armed deployment even through the portal
or any API if the list of skews is not matching.
So I'm going to say a sign up here on the top.
Now, luckily there is a wizard type interface so we can drag and drop point and click our way through
this.
First question we have is the scope.
Now, there are several scopes, right?
This subscription that I'm in is part of what's called a management group.
And so I could do a management group scope, but I could also sign the scope to the specific subscription
so I could at this point say select, and this policy would then apply to across the entire subscription.
I can also be more granular and pick a specific resource group.
Called a Z test group that I created previously, and so now this policy would only apply to the azy
test group.
I can also specifically exclude resources from this assignment so I can apply it to the entire subscription
except for a particular resource group.
So we're going to leave this all policies enabled.
This is me that's creating this.
Now, we do have to go into what are called parameters.
Remember, the policy is going to look up a list of acceptable skewes loud skewes from a list and this
is the list.
So if I click on the dropdown, I will see all of the instance sizes that are available.
And so let's say I don't want any basic skewes.
I will allow a one.
A two.
A three.
A four.
And then the D.
I won't allow the BS of 21.
Dita.
Now, of course, this is going to be very restricting, the whole purpose of this is to restrict the
people who are going to be affected by this policy into only selecting excuse that I allow, because
some of these schools are quite expensive.
I don't know how much a D forty eight server is, but if you told me it's ten dollars an hour, I wouldn't
be surprised.
Right.
So some of these servers can be quite expensive.
So I chose 31 which are the A series went to four and the D series went to four.
I can say review.
Now, you can see on the remediation screen, it says this assignment will only take effect on newly
created resources, so existing resources are not going to be affected unless I run this policy as a
remediation task.
So basically would have to go back to this and then audit and check my existing VMS that don't.
OK, so let's say review and create and we'll see create.
So the creating of the policy assignment succeeded.
If I go under policies again and go under assignments, I can see that the allowed virtual machine skews.
There's a policy.
There's only one tax policy associated with it and it's in the compute category.
Now to show you the effect of this if we were to then.
So this policy is different.
If we were to go into the go into create a resource virtual machine.
We're going to choose the test group that we.
Put the policy against.
Give it a name.
And the image doesn't matter, this doesn't matter, what does matter is the list of sizes, so I'm
going to say see all sizes.
Now, we did not allow the B series virtual machines.
So if I allow if I select B to C or before Ms.
Then we know that that is not on the allowed list of Skewes, so I'm going to just skip through here,
disable the diagnostics, and if I get to the review screen, the validation is going to pass because
we selected all of the correct requirements.
When I click create, when it does go to deploy the virtual machine, we would expect an error.
We expect that it has a policy violation and I'm going to create that and test that.
All right, so we got a pop up saying that the resource was disallowed by policy.
And it's tells me the policy assignment is the allowed virtual machine skills, so even the error message
tells me that this is not allowed and we can see it listed as forbidden in the deployment details.
So this is working exactly as expected as your policy has basically forbidden me from choosing the sites
because it's not allowed by my company policy.
Well, you can see that you can be quite creative with your policy.
You can create your own custom policies, modify the existing ones, or use some of the hundreds and
hundreds of predefined ones that can enforce your company's governance policies on your subscription
or even on specific resource groups.
