Now, it's quite easy to imagine that over time you come up with a standard list of company policies,
you have custom ones or the ones that are built in that you want to be enforced.
You're also going to have a standard set of rules within our back.
You're also going to have armed templates within the template directory.
All of these things can be packaged together into what's called an Azure blueprint.
So as your blueprints help with the set of new environments, new subscriptions.
So if you're working in a multi subscription environment where each major team, each major business
unit has its own subscription, you can set up a standard company subscription that, you know, you
spend a lot of time and effort creating all of those things that are required in terms of rules, policies,
templates, groups, and then it's just a matter of copy and paste to get to each new subscription you
need to create.
So these are called blueprints.
Now, if we go into the Azure portal and we search for blueprints, you can search for the word blue
and blueprint's comes up, we can see that azure blueprints is a service.
So, again, blueprints are a collection of really calling artifacts that allow you to quickly create
subscriptions that follow the company policy.
So you start off with creating a blueprint.
So this is where you can upload your arm templates, you can upload your custom policies, you can assign
your policies, do your custom roll stuff.
And all these resource groups, let's say you have development stage and production resource groups
all set up and ready to go.
And of course, then once you've got that template, you can apply the blueprint to one or more subscriptions,
you get them up to the company standard and then you can see which subscriptions are using, which blueprints.
So let's create a blueprint.
I click the button.
Now, we can start with the a blank blueprint, and that would be probably most appropriate for a lot
of companies or there's some simple blueprint.
So we can see that Azure has a security benchmark.
There's Australian government, Canada federal blueprint, the U.S. government fed ramp hyp offer for
health industry compliance, some of the ISO ones.
So if any of these apply to you, you can sort of peruse this and see if these PCI, anytime you're
handling credit cards, the financial industry, then you can peruse those and see their policies and
roll definitions that might be appropriate for you.
So, for instance, we can go into the United Kingdom official, give it a test name.
We have to choose where the blueprint is deployed again, the blueprint will be deployed at the topmost
level if you want the management group or you can deploy it to a single subscription.
But this limits from where you can deploy it further.
So major group is going to be where you're likely going to want to put that.
But if we look at the artifacts of the UK policy, the UK blueprint, we can see the interesting one
are the locations.
So there are predefined UK S and UK West as the only two locations allowed for both resources and resource
groups.
So quite clearly for a UK official blueprint, this is going to be one policy that is going to be enforced,
which is the resources have to be within the geographical boundaries of the United Kingdom.
There's also you can see apparently the encryption threat detection, anti malware extension, etc.
the discard of this go back into Crete.
Probably most companies will start with a blank blueprint, so.
I'm going to call this first blueprint, and this can be sort of some a some policies.
And we said that this has to be there's a scope to a blueprint.
And so we'll put this in the mantra group level.
And now we have sort of the blank slate where we can go and add, again, roles, groups, policies,
arm templates.
So I can say add artifact shoes from the list.
So a policy summit that I want, I'm going to want the skill one I can choose, just as we just did,
the allowed virtual machine skills.
And then we can choose the we can we can repopulate it or we can see when the person is assigned the
blueprint, they can choose which skills are to be populated.
And I'll just add a resource group as a example here, so display names, so let's call this production.
Resource group name.
This can be PRAD.
And location specified a time of assignment, and we can even have resource tags in here.
So you can see it's very easy to sort of set up your template and at that point then enforce your company
defaults on your subscriptions that you're going to be creating for other parts of your organization.
