<v Scott>Well hello and thank you so much</v>
for checking out this course
on the Azure Architect Technologies exam
covering both the AZ-300 content as well as AZ-303.
My name is Scott Duffy.
Now I'm in the process of recording this course
all over from scratch for the AZ-303 content.
Instead of updating the videos in place,
I'm going to be creating a whole new course
that will be added to this course
and so if you're interested in the AZ-303 content,
I would ask to scroll past the AZ-300 course,
just go right past it around video 120 or so
into the AZ-303 content.
So look for it around there.
Everyday, every week, I'm going to be adding
more videos to this course
until the content is complete.
Now I should tell you right off the bat,
this exam, whether you take AZ-300 or AZ-301,
it is a difficult exam.
It is one of the more difficult exams
that Microsoft Azure offers.
You are in the right place however
because I cover the requirements of the exam
from start to finish.
As I go through the requirements of the exam,
there will be videos in sections of this course
on each topic.
Take your time studying.
I don't think you can learn this material from scratch
in two days and then expect to take the exam
within a week.
You are going to have to take some time at this.
Absolutely required that you have an Azure account.
You can get a free account.
We'll talk about that in a second.
Do the hands-on practice
and as I'm going through this content in my course,
you can pause the videos and go do it yourself.
This course is very hands-on.
Most of the videos will be demonstration videos
inside the Azure portal
and so, there'll be lots of opportunities
for you to practice.
I do want to say thank you so much for signing up.
There is a lot to learn.
I don't want to scare you off
but there are literary 100 plus topics on this exam
and Azure is a big space.
This isn't expert level certification
but if Azure's so big, it's very hard to be an expert
at every aspect of it.
You're going to be stronger in some things
and you're going to have more broad knowledge in others.
Even if you have prior Azure experience,
you do need to study in order to pass this test.
You can't just go from having working experience
and go take the exam
because Azure's so big, there's going to be places within Azure
that you have not yet experienced before.
As long as you have a passion and an interest in learning,
I believe you can learn it.
Almost anyone can learn this
as long as you have the motivation to self-propel you
through the content.
Of course, if you do have a background in IT
and you do understand what Windows and Linux is and GitHub
and I can just say these terms without having to define them
is going to come in handy.
So this is, gives you a little bit of leg up
in that sense.
Finally, there's no need to stress.
There's no need to worry.
Go through this slowly at your own pace.
You have this course lifetime access.
You can watch the videos as many times as you want
and you should be fine.
In case you don't know my name, it's Scott Duffy.
I have more than 20 years experience
developing systems for companies of big and small
and government organizations.
I started off as a junior developer to a senior developer,
all the way up to a manager and a director.
I do get immense joy from helping students learn Azure
that's why I'm so grateful that you're here.
Let's talk about what Microsoft Azure is.
Microsoft Azure's a cloud-computing platform.
What that means is that you can go into the cloud
and rent computing services with no upfront investment.
You sign up for an account,
you get your credit card and then you're able to go
and rent a server,
rent some storage, get some networking set up.
Technically, it is the number two platform
behind Amazon AWS
but Azure is growing faster than AWS
and a lot of people, including Gartner Group
think that the capabilities of both platforms
are fairly equivalent.
They do have different ways of doing things
but from a pound per pound, punch for punch,
Azure and AWS are fairly equivalent.
They've all got similar features.
There's all be billions of dollars in sales.
They're landing big contracts.
Azure landing big contracts with the U.S. government.
AWS landing big contracts with other companies.
I happen to believe Azure's the more exciting space.
Azure is certainly fun-er to work with in my opinion
but I'm biased of course.
In this course, we're going to go through
all of the relevant elements of Microsoft Azure.
So all of the compute platforms, the virtual machines,
the app services, scale sets, Kubernetes for containers.
We're also going to talk about networking,
another one of the pillars of Azure
from you know content delivery and our work in DNS,
the basics of virtual networks and subnets,
load balancers, et cetera.
And we'll even dive into things such as databases
and some of the modern ways that you can work with data
in the cloud.
I am so grateful that you're here.
Thank you so much for signing up for this course.
Let's get started.
