<v Instructor>Now I do want to take a minute</v>
to explain to you some changes that are happening
within the world of Microsoft Azure certifications.
It seems that every year Microsoft makes enough changes
to their exams that they have to rename them.
The current exam code is AZ-300 Microsoft Azure
Architect Technologies.
There is also an AZ-303,
Microsoft Azure Architect Technologies exam in beta.
Now you are watching the AZ-300 course.
I am in the process now of recording the AZ-303,
which will become available in the weeks ahead
at the end of this course.
Now, my recommendation to you is if you are at this point
of studying for AZ-300, that you continue doing that.
The beta exam, the AZ-303 in beta,
is not something that you should take
without knowing the implications.
The most significant implication
is that you're not going to get your results right away.
So you can sit and take the AZ-303 today,
And you're still going to have to wait until
September or October to get your results.
And maybe that's not going to be your expectation
of having to wait a couple of months
to get the results of a test.
So the other thing about beta exams is of course
that the questions are beta questions,
which means they might not be perfect.
You might find some wording questions.
Things are not as perfect as you might expect them to be.
And finally, the exam would be a little bit longer,
and there's not even as much study materials.
I'm in the process of recording AZ-303 content.
But besides that, you're not going to find a lot of discussion
of the AZ-303 exam on the internet.
So I do recommend that if you're watching this,
the AZ-300 Microsoft Azure Architect Technology's exam
is the exam for you until September.
Now, when the AZ-303 goes live,
you can then make the choice at that time
to switch over to study for that exam.
But if it's not yet live, go ahead and take AZ-300.
That's my recommendation to you.
You can certainly take the beta if you want to,
but just be aware of the implications.
