Now we're moving on to the third major section of this course that says implement solutions for apps
and it's worth 10 to 15 percent of the overall score.
Now, we're talking about apps here.
Previously in this course, we talked about virtual machines, virtual network storage accounts, sort
of the infrastructure as a service options.
In this video in the section, we're going to talking about app services.
Now, let's start off by saying, what is the difference between an app service and a virtual machine?
Now, the virtual machine, as we saw, gives us full and complete access to a Windows or Linux box.
We can remote into it using our message and then install whatever software we want to configure it,
however we wish, have direct access to the, you know, the C drive and the registry and all these
things in the application.
We're also then responsible for operating system updates and ensuring that our firewall settings are
correct and all the security implications of having control with an Azure app service.
It is fairly limited in the control that you have me.
You do have some control, but you're basically just taking your code, packaging up and sending to
Azure for Azure to deploy.
We're just going to jump right into creating our first Web service.
So if I go under the new option of the marketplace, we can see Web app as being the third popular element.
You'll note that Web app and app service are the same thing in this context.
So I'm going to say Web app.
We have to put it into a resource group.
So I'm going to put this into a SJT Web app.
Now, Webapp is a is a Web app, and it basically has a fully qualified domain name.
This is like having ISIS as a service.
So this is my new Web app.
It's not going to be available because it's taken.
And I can see is that my new Web app, Azure Web Dot Net.
Now, of course, you can custom your have a custom domain for this and we'll talk about that.
But you're going to get this as your website sunhat domain for free.
Now, one of the interesting things about Web apps is it's so flexible in terms of what kind of code
you can send to it.
So if we stick to the code deployment for this discussion and we open up this dropdown here, see here
that it's filled the window, we've got the daughton core, both two point one and three point one.
Dot net core is a cross platform version of dot net.
So this is running in Windows or running in Linux.
Aspe Dunnett is Windows only.
We have Java a couple of versions, Java eight and Java 11.
We've got no G.S., a whole bunch of versions of that PHP, Python and Ruby, if your application does
not run on top of one of those frameworks.
Then I'm sorry, this is a Web app is not going to be great for you.
Now you can, of course, have a container and then in that container, it runs one of these things
that basically you run on top of with your solution.
So this is all quite flexible.
Now, first, you have to choose the runtime stack.
So like, if I choose Net, I don't have a choice of operating system.
It's Windows only.
And so you see, it's all great out.
Similarly, if I chose well, Java, Java is Windows and Linux.
Jova Tomcat as well, and look, Python is Linux only, so some of these, you know, language choices
are going to force you into one operating system or the other.
So let's create a darknet core two point one app, get our choice of Linux or Windows.
Of course, we have to deploy this into a location.
Let's leave this in central U.S. for now.
Now, the next major decision after you've chosen the runtime, the next major decision is to choose
your plan.
Now, this is very much like choosing a hosting plan at a hosting company.
I'm going to say create new here, give it a name.
Call it my new plan.
And we do get to change the hosting option now for Azure Web apps, there are three tabs here and many
different plans under their.
I'm going to talk about the service plans in this next video.
