So that was quick.
Now I can say go to resource now remember we created this, it has a YORO so I can obviously copy the
URL, open up a new Web browser and be very brave and go to it.
Now, there's nothing there.
It's a default Web site.
It says your app service is up and running.
You need to now deploy some code to it.
So why don't we try that, I'm going to go into visual studio and I'm going to deploy a simple app into
this.
Now, I have downloaded visuals to 2009, it is free
and you don't need to do coding, you don't need to know this actually for for the exam.
But we can go and say, let's look at a Natcore application, give it a name.
And it will go create one for me now, I can basically set up a different types of websites I'm going
to see sample.
This one has a simple app involved.
Create.
All right, so now it's a simple app, I can run it on my local machine just to just to examine it,
so I'm going to build it first.
Bill succeeded, and if I run it, it's called IRS Express for your local.
I started it starts up localhost.
And it just says welcome.
So this is running locally.
Now, I want to get this into Azur.
The way you do that is you go under building.
You say publish.
You want to publish it where I want to publish Azur, I want to publish it to an app service, we already
created a Windows app service, didn't we?
Now it's going to pull the list of app services.
And this is that ushered in my new Web app is the one that we just created.
So let's target that one.
Now we're ready to go, I can see publish.
Now, in this window is going to be the copy, we're actually going to see all of the digital files
and the directories being created through adding directory.
This is being added to Azure.
All of the files are being uploaded.
You can just sort of imagine the data is being transferred over the Internet and voila.
The.
Application is running under my URL, Onozawa said something that it just says welcome.
So if I if I minimize this, we can go back to the.
So this webapp now has code that we just developed live running at this funeral, and we did that within
within minutes.
And of course, if you modify the application, you just hit the publish button and it'll push it again.
Now, the integration is not the only way you get called into here, right?
So it's obviously seamless and tied in.
But if we go under deployment, we say QuickStart, we can see that depending on the language that you
chose.
Their simple code available for you and you can get started.
If you go into a deployment center, we can actually start to create what is called continuous integration
or continuous deployment if you store your code in GitHub.
You can basically set up a GitHub repo, push your code in there, and as the repo changes that can
be automatically deployed into this Azure app and so that is a continuous integration.
You can also use the Azure dev ops services to do it, a continuous integration as well.
We did the push from from dot net.
It also supports FTP deployments.
So if you're using, you know, eclipse or how whatever app environment that you use, that's not visual
studio.
If it supports FTP, then those files can get put into your Azure Web app using that.
If you want to push the files to Dropbox, it can be synchronized from a Dropbox folder, etc. So there's
many ways to get the files there in an automated fashion.
It's also, of course, integrated with Visual Studio.
