Now, I do want to be clear for the Azure architecture exam, you're not going to be tested on any of
the developments or administration features here within Azure app services.
So I'm not even going to show you deployment slots or backups or anything like that.
I was going to show you how to scale up from the free plan to the basic plan, but that's not even really
on the test.
What is on the test in the AISI three or three is some of the newer features, such as networking.
So if we go under the networking setting, we can see that Viña integration is one of the features.
Now it says securely access resources available in or through Azure Venette.
And so what this allows you to do has your Web app Access Resources in Azure.
So you have to sort of realize that the Azure Web apps and the SQL databases and storage accounts,
they're almost running on the Azure public side of of Azure and then all of your Venette stuff, it's
all private to you.
So you have to sort of poke a hole through your Venette to allow some of these services.
So if I say click here to continue, well, right away, the free plan is not eligible to run this.
So we're going to have to go from the free plan up to either standard or premium.
So I'm going to go to S1 Plain.
I was most surprised how quick it is to upgrade the plans now, so S1 almost instantaneously.
So now we're on the standard plan and now we can add a virtual network that we want this Web app to
have access to.
Now, I created a Venette just for this demonstration running in the same region, so obviously a Web
app running in the U.S. is going to want to connect to resources also in central U.S. If you are going
to have to connect to resources in another region, you're going to need to create a network to network
communication.
And we talked about that in the networking section of this course.
So I want to connect to the Venette, my new Venette.
Now, let's imagine that this Web app needs to connect to something in the back end.
So we select the backend subnet and say, OK.
And so what it's doing is it's basically poking a hole or opening up that integration between the the
backend Venette subnet and this webapp.
And we can see that it's listed here in terms of which app this has network access to.
Now, notice that there's no ad there's no ad button, so you can only have access to one at a time,
so you'd have to disconnect it to add it to something else.
But if you want your Web app to to be able to access resources on Avina, this is how you have to do
that.
