Now, one of the buzzwords over the last couple of years in cloud computing is serverless.
Now, Serverless as a concept is effectively that you are giving Microsoft even more control over the
environment.
So you're giving them your code and they are completely responsible for running it.
Now, with app services, as we just saw, you still need to create an app service plan, which means
choosing a size in advance and then you are responsible for scaling it.
So that plan has accused and if you're going to exceed the capacity of that, you're going to have to
scale up.
There's auto scaling.
Not only that, you're responsible for backups as well, placing that code onto the site, etc. So in
the Serverless model, Microsoft and Asia are going to take over the hosting of the application.
And so you don't even create an app service plan.
You're paying for execution.
If I gave a Web app to Azure in a serverless model, then they would just charge me for the microseconds
that it ran every time someone visited and not for when it's not running.
There are a couple of Serverless services that we're going to talk about, and the first one is called
a logic app.
So a logic app is basically what is called a workflow in the old days.
So Microsoft has Windows Workflow Foundation, SQL Server has SQL Server Integration Services.
You might be familiar with a Web app such as if this then that IFTTT and others that allow you to basically
create a workflow with boxes and lines, drag and drop, no code applications.
So let's show you an example of this type of no code application.
So I'm going to go under a logic app and say, create do you have to create a resource group?
I'm going to create a new one for this called A-Z Logic App.
Logic app needs a name.
I'll also call it A-Z Logic App.
Now, we do get a couple of choices of where the logic app is going to run.
The logic app can run at the regional level.
And this is a traditional logic app, a Cervalis.
Or he can run in this icy integration service environment, which is a fully isolated, dedicated environment
for your logic.
So think of the app services that run an isolated think of virtual machines that run in a dedicated
host.
Well, you can do the same thing for logic.
And of course, this is not serverless in that you are going to pay for this whether or not you use
it.
OK, so it doesn't have the consumption model of pricing, but the stick with the region model, I can
deploy this to the default cost us.
Do I want logging, yes or no, do we have a Tagg's option I can see, review and create.
And creates.
Now, this was created very quickly because LogCAP so far doesn't exist now, the first time you go
into it, you're going to be thrown into this logic app's designer.
So this is one of those unusual experiences where we don't get to see that overview screen in the blade
with all the options on the left, were to throw one right away into a designer.
Now, every LogCAP has one and only one trigger and then a sequence of actions that happens once that
trigger fires.
Now here's a set of common triggers.
It can be a timer.
It could be based on a Yooralla HTP request sent into a listener.
You can monitor social media such as Twitter, check, email, check the message queue, check a Dropbox
or a one drive or FCP server.
And there are hundreds of these triggers now going down even further.
We can see that Microsoft does provide us with some pre-built ones as samples.
And so if I scroll a little bit, I can see that a very simple one would be as if someone sent a request
into an HTP URL that responded with something.
But as we saw, we can we can have daily reminders.
We can have Dropbox copy of file to one drive.
We can have email about certain tweets.
So you're looking for Azur tweets.
You can send that yourself as an email.
And so now there are dozens and dozens of media templates for you to choose from.
Of course, you can always start with a blank app and that way you can build what you want from scratch.
So I'm going to I'm going to start based on an AP request.
So right away, we're thrown into this screen, it's really almost like a canvas where you're going
to end up painting your logic.
So this is HGP request, and then I'm going to start to add things that happen, actions that happen
after that.
The YORO hasn't been generated yet.
There's a schema.
So if we want to accept data to this year, we're going to have to define the schema.
But we can also just create a sample payload so I can see on name.
It's generated this schema for me.
OK.
Now, what do we want to happen?
So let's say I submit a request to this issue to be YORO, which will be generated with a name as part
of the the body.
What do we want to happen?
Well, there's a lot of of options, right.
So obviously I could call another issue to Pappi, pass that along.
I could connect with Azur functions, another logic and pass this onto a Web app, go through an API
process.
I'm going to choose response.
So this is what's going to get written back to the client who is sent me this.
So the seller's code will be two hundred.
I'm not going to have any custom headers.
And then what do we want to see in the body of the response now?
In this case, it's going to be, you know, HTML, but.
Let's say that when someone says that we're going to respond with I put the I'll put the name parameter
that they give us hello and their name and an exclamation, OK, can hide that.
So you'll see this little box.
So let us concatenate and there's little functions and expressions that come in here.
So we're going to respond, whatever you submit the name, it's going to say hello name.
Now I can say save.
And that's our first LogCAP, right, so there's a request and there's a response now, logic can be
way more complicated than that, right?
So I could have an if statement in here, a condition, actually.
And then I can say, you know, if if name and then I choose the name is equal to I can say Scott,
then I want some action to happen.
Let's say the HTP response.
I can say.
Hey, buddy, so if you're.
If you pass in the name Scotts, it's going to give you one response, and if you don't pass on the
name Scott now this is where I can zoom out because I'm going to do a little drag and drop here, and
then I'm going to take the response that I was going to give and I'm going to paste it.
Inside the false condition, so when the ACP requests received, I'm going to check the name property
and see if it's equal to Scott and if that's true, it's going to say, hey, buddy, great to see you.
And if it's not true, it'll just say hello name.
Now, I'm going to save this.
