So whereas a logic app is no code workflow service in the cloud, there is another type of service offering
called a function, which does involve code, but it's also serverless.
So if we go into New in the Marketplace Function app is one of the popular services we can click function
app.
Now we're going to be presented with this common Wizzard interface.
As always, we put it in a group.
And the function app is fully qualified.
It's got this Azure website dot net, so it's going to have to be unique across all of Azure.
Now, this is very similar to app services in that we do get to choose the runtime stack and the stack
version, and then we're going to choose between deploying code and a docker container.
So let's say we want our function to be core.
You see, we have the scroll a little bit.
We have the option of NOGs, Python, Java and partial.
We do get the choice of versions, although in this case that doesn't support two point one, it supports
three point one.
And we get to choose the region.
Central U.S. notice we didn't choose the operating system.
These are all across platforms.
So this is, again, sort of a more serverless model.
Now there is a hosting tab.
So this is kind of different.
All functions need a storage account because you're going to end up creating code and that code has
to be supported somewhere.
So it's going to be a brand new storage account or you can use an existing one.
Based on our runtime stock, we get to choose the operating system, Windows or Linux.
Now, this is the real decision point here.
We can either choose to run it under the consumption plan or we can choose to run it as an apt service
plan, which is not Serverless.
It's just like an app service.
But and in fact, we can choose one of our existing app services, I believe.
So I can put this in one of my previous app service plans.
Now, there is a relatively new third option called premium.
Now, premium functions have some extra premium features, of course.
For instance, if I chose this consumption plan, then I was only going to charge me based on the calls.
So if this goes several days without being called and then someone finally calls my function, well,
there is this lag.
There is going to be a start up time because Azure is not running my function when it's not being used.
So there's a shutdown that happens after some idle time.
If I went into the premium plan, then I can have what are called always ready instances, which means
my app is always instantiated and available to be called.
Not only that, you can choose the number of instances.
So if you want to just like app services, if you want two instances, three instances, for instance,
is running up to 20.
The premium plan is where you can start to customize some of those performance features.
Premium functions also have the feature of being connected to a Venette.
So normally for a consumption plan, then it's a public function.
You don't have the option of having access to private azure services.
But if you go to pray and plan, you can connect it to a Venette and get access to the servers and things
that are located on to that virtual network.
Premium functions also can run for a longer period of time.
So a consumption plan times that after about 10 minutes.
And the premium plan has a default of 30 minutes.
And you can, of course, modify that if you need to, to have an unlimited running time for your functions.
If they get that long, we're just going to go the normal consumption plan.
This means we're just going to get charged for the CPU utilization and the number of executions.
I can have application insights enabled, I'm not going to do that for now, skip the tags and when
I click the button, this new function app will be created.
Now there's no code yet in it.
In the next video, we'll create a small function, but this is how you create a function.
