All right, our function app did get created, we can say go to resource.
Now, the heart of the function are the functions we can certainly talk about the settings for the app,
there's a whole configuration thing and the security around it, but you start off a function by creating
a function.
Now, this interface has changed.
It's a lot more like the rest of Azure that used to be quite customised interface.
Lets let's create our first function.
So we're going to bring the function s..
We're going to see add.
Now this is going to be very familiar to the logic apps and that all functions have a trigger, one
and only one trigger, and that means the function is idle until something causes it to run.
And so you can run it on a trigger, a timer.
So every minute the function can execute, you can have that HTP trigger, just like we had with the
logic app.
We can be waiting for a cue message to be inserted into a queue or service bus or a storage queue.
We can be looking for a file to appear in a blob storage account.
We could be looking for database, Cosmos, DB document event hub, Iot hub and a number of other function
types.
In this case, let's create a timer.
So it basically what's going to happen is it's going to run set to the set time.
Now this is the current format, so it's basically seconds, minutes, hours, days, months, years.
Right.
That the each point of this crime represents one of those time elements.
And if you say start divided by five, this means that it runs every it runs every five minutes.
If the minutes is divisible by five, like five, 10, 15, 20, 25, then that's going to be positive
and run.
OK, so every five minutes we're expecting this function to run.
Now, where the logic app was very much about flow, you had multiple steps, one after another.
The function app is much more about code.
Remember, we picked dot net code.
It could also have been Python and Java and other things.
So we've created our first function.
We created a trigger here for this function and we're going to have to obviously start coding for it.
Now, since this is a dot net function that we chose to create, you'll see here that the file ends
in DOT CSX, the case, of course, being C sharp.
All right.
Now, we could write a dot net code, including like integrations with other APIs, integrations with
other parts of Azure.
If I wanted to integrate with a blob storage account, I can go.
Even though this is running based on a timer, I can still go to a search account and look up some information
or something.
Now, I could write this all in code.
Azure does have this integration tab that allows me to sort of setup some of these inputs.
So trigger we've already chosen.
What we want to do is find some place where we're going to to do an input.
So these are called bindings.
Now we can see that the bindings are categorized.
We can have blob storage bindings, Cosmos, DB, table storage.
These durable and orchestration clients are for really complex functions that are maybe the always running
or you want to have five things going on at the same time.
It's a very advanced type of function, but we won't cover it in this in this course.
So these are these are the built in bindings that does not stop you from writing the code.
If you want to do something like call an external API.
Well, you could write to write your own code for that.
But let's say I wanted to check the contents of a blob storage account.
I can pick the blob binding, give it a name, pick the path.
So let's see, there's a container called container and the name of the blob account is going to get
returned to me.
And you do this through connections.
And so you you know, you're going to create a brand new connection.
And I can choose the you know, he said nine hundred core storage account and it's going to create a
brand new connection for that storage account.
Now, besides input's, the other element is output's, and so the functions pretty much going to have
to do something.
Every five minutes is going to run.
It's going to go check an input blob for some type of information and then it's going to do something.
So I say ad output.
Now, the output, it's going to have a name as well.
I'm going to put this in the same container, but it's going to use a random guide in terms of the name
and we're going to use the same connection, this for the convenience of it.
So we have an input blob container and an output blob container, and it's going to run on a timer.
OK, go back to the code element.
Now, we've got a couple more things to do before this can become really useful.
I'm going to say string input blob.
Remember, we added the input integration for the Blob and I'm going to see out string output blob.
Let's see that go back to the integration tab and we can see we have our input output.
Bob, parameters already set up for us.
Right now, this is where you would put your coat, I'm not going to, you know, because of the nature
of this course, this is not a program.
Of course, this test is not going to ask you to write any code at all.
And so I'm not going to get deep in here in terms of fully writing out this function.
My point here is that functions are typically short pieces of code.
You could have them 30, 40, 100 lines, which is perfectly fine.
You wouldn't necessarily want a function that is thousands of lines.
They're typically short running.
Now, we talked about premium functions being able to run longer.
We talked about durable functions, having some really sophisticated properties to them.
But in general, the ideal function starts, does something and then finishes like it's triggered on
a message arriving in a queue.
It reads the message, it passes the message on to the right to situation and it finishes.
And you're going to be charged by not only the number of executions, by the amount of CPU time that
it uses
now functions.
You've got the CSX code here.
I should point out that there is also a ISO not really parameters file, but this is like the application
config file.
And so all the bindings that we created in integration section, including the timer, including the
input blob and the upper blob, they live as JSON in here.
And if I was to delete one of them, then the integration would update without this.
So let's say we didn't need the input, but we decided at some point that bla bla was a distraction.
So now we're left with the trigger and the open blob, and then when I go to the integration tab, you
may have to hit the refresh button a couple of times the input has disappeared.
So see, the Jason feeds the screen.
Of course, to do that, we're going to then remove one of the parameters.
And so this will no longer be just click that.
Now you can write your code right into the browser, it's one of the advantages of functions is that
there's not really you don't need development environment.
If you don't want one, you just do it in the browser.
But Visual Studio also has the ability for me to create a function app.
I can it right in here, write my code.
And then just as I'm publishing to a Web app, I can publish to the function.
Once my code is in here, I can go to the test harness that's built in and again, I can provide it.
If you did much like the logic app, if you were providing parameters in the body, then you could put
that right in here and run it and then check out the results.
It's going to have some screaming logs here, and it didn't actually do anything, it just logged some
information.
There was no HGP response.
It's not even a 200 success.
It's just a tool, too.
So we can see here that the log is a C sharp timer trigger.
If I scroll down, it actually.
It actually requires the perimeter so we can see that the run of it actually failed.
The to show you how easy it is, if I actually was to assign the output blobbed parameter.
This is actually going to write a string to the container.
Remember, the name of the Blob actually is a good ID with a random go.
And so this is going to be the contents of that.
So if we were to save this.
And then where to run it?
Then we would expect.
Well, let's see that it happened, so see sharp timer trigger executed.
So this code was that we were expecting actually did run and it completed.
Now let's go to the storage account.
Georgia counts a 900 course.
Containers.
There's one container and you can see there's a blob in here that was created just a minute ago with
a random name.
And if I was to.
Download it.
Then open it into a text editor, then my this is a test ended up as a blob.
So once you've got your bindings working, it actually works pretty well.
That's exactly what I expected.
So functions are cool, little things there.
There also could be free.
So there's a large free limit of a million execution's a month.
And so it's going to take you running functions several times a minute in order for you to catch up
to that million execution's per month.
Great for little jobs, great for cleaning out a container every hour, great for deleting old files
or moving things from one container to the other, etc..
All these little jobs don't need their own hosting.
They can just be done as functions.
