So in this section of the course, we're going to talk about virtual networking.
The thing is, a lot of the virtual networking topics do not appear on the exam.
There is no basic questions about virtual networks or subnets or overlapping IP address ranges or anything
like that.
The questions on the exam have to do with virtual network to virtual network connections, as well as
Venette peering now for the people who are a little bit rusty on it or haven't got a lot of experience
with virtual networks.
I am going to create a virtual network here for us because I'm going to use this as an example.
When doing the Venette to Venette connections and peering, I found a virtual network into the Microsoft
marketplace.
Now remember, when you're creating a virtual machine, you also have the opportunity to create a virtual
network at the same time.
And so there are more than one way to create a virtual network in Azure.
So creating a virtual network, as usual, we have to have a subscription.
I have a special resource group for this already created.
I give the Venette a name.
I'm going to call this Venette one, and I'm going to create this in East Coast region, the same as
the resource group.
Now, virtual networks have a range of IP addresses, so instead of having an infinite amount of IP
addresses, you do have to specify a fixed range.
The IP address ranges in Azure generally follow what's called Seiter C IDR notation, so it has a dot
IP address mask with a slash and the number of bits that are relevant.
So the smaller the number, the more IP addresses would be reserved.
So if I said 10 zero zero zero eight, well, that's the largest size that we're going to be able to
reserve in Asia and that is 16 million IP addresses.
You can see it starts from 10 Dot 020.
That's all the way up to ten or twenty five to fifty five to forty five to forty five.
So you generally do not want this would be a bad idea because you would not be able to create another
Venette in your subscription.
You basically in one single Venette used up the entire IP address range.
Now even as 16 is a little excessive.
So if we scroll out of this, we can see there's still sixty five thousand addresses covered by a slash
16.
Generally, it's like a 24 that starts to make some sense.
That gives you two hundred and fifty six possible devices that can connect to this virtual network.
Now, it's not actually 256 because five of those IP addresses are reserved for internal use.
And so it's actually two fifty one usable address.
Now it is giving me a message here because I do have other vignettes and I do have 10 to 0.01 24 reserved
in another Venette.
So I'm going to have to find an IP address range that is not currently used.
Ten point one does 020 ok.
Now you can give multiple ranges and they all compound together.
We're just going to have the one for now.
Microsoft Azure is largely IPV six compliant these days.
It's took them a while, but now you can have a fully IPV six solution.
If you want that address range, you can add it and then you can specify which IP address you want.
Now all virtual networks require a subnet minimum of one subnet.
Subnet is basically a division, a subdivision inside of that IP address range.
Now the subnet has to have a smaller subset of the IP addresses as its range.
So let's show you an example.
So if I said 25, that is basically one half of the 24 address space.
So I could create a hundred and twenty three devices connected to this twenty five network.
Remember, there's always five reserved and then I can create another Venette and have another up two
hundred and twenty three devices.
If I said Serzh 26, it's still pretty good.
So I'll create a default subnet, which is roughly one quarter of the space of the total Venette.
Now, there are some various things that will be added, we're not getting into that in this course
because this, of course, doesn't cover Bastion or Firewall or Dorst services.
But if you want to have those Azure services, you need to install a special subnet just for that.
So the Bastiano would runs on its own subnet and you'd have to create that usual Tegan's review and
create and I'm going to click create.
Now, this should be done fairly instantly because a virtual network is just a database entry.
There's no instance being created.
There's nothing that's been started up, no additional computing going on.
This is just a configuration within your Azure account.
So that's basically how you create a virtual network, but like I said, this is not going to be on
the exam because the exam covers more advanced stuff.
So I basically say, let's continue on.
I'm going to now create before the next video or create a second virtual network and we're going to
connect them.
