Now, the other type of connection between Benitz is called a piercing, so I'm going to go accreted
Venette three and Venette four for this example, go into one of them and if we scroll down to settings,
we see parings.
So this does not require a device, does not require a separate subnet.
What we are going to do is basically create this pairing and then Azur will do all the work to connect
the two.
So name of the pairing of Venette three to Venette for Resource Manager Model.
I'm going to pick Venette for as the resource now it's going to set up the peering from three to four.
It's also going to set up the from four to three.
So it's a two way street here and I can, you know, allow access from three to four and then allow
access from four to three.
Again, if I want this to be only a one way connection, I can do that or I can leave it open as a two
way connection.
There's also settings for what's called forwarded traffic, so if there's another Venette connected
to for, let's say Venette, one is connected to four, but it wants to talk to three, but it's not
connected to three, then Venette four can pass the traffic along.
But we're not going to enable any of that.
And Gateway Transit is to go from a VPN device across this network to another device like a hub and
spoke model.
So that's it.
It's going to create Venette peering now does doing some work behind the scenes to set up this relationship?
I am charged for the data transfer.
So if you're going to set up two virtual networks and they're going to be very chatty with each other,
you're going to be paying outbound data connection from one network and inbound data connection to another
network.
So it is a kind of an expensive connection if you're transferring a lot of data between them.
And that's as simple as that.
So a Venette pairing is actually there's no device involved.
There's no subnet gateway.
But again, there's there's there's the expense of the data with the network gateway.
You're paying for the network gateway device.
So one might be cheaper, one might be more expensive depending on your usage.
