So this video going to go over how to encrypt the operating system and the data disks with any virtual
machine.
Now the files on an Azure storage account are by default encrypted using what's called secure storage
encryption.
But once you've basically able to see the VHS within a storage account the VHS itself is not encrypted
so you can use what's called bit locker in order to encrypt the virtual disk within Azure.
Now the cryptographic keys for this are going to be stored in Azure key vault.
So the first thing you're going to need is what's called a key vault.
If you go into the marketplace and you look up key vault then you're going to see that key vault so
Microsoft product.
And you're going to if you don't have one you're going to need to create one.
Now I happen to have a key vault and so I'm going to use the one that I already have.
But creating one should be pretty straightforward.
Now with a key vault key vaults allow you to store secrets and these secrets can be either keys cryptographic
keys in this case secrets that are application secrets or security certificates in order to encrypt
a virtual disk.
We need to use keys so I'm going to go into the key section of my key vault.
Keep in mind that in order to encrypt the key vault for a virtual machine it has to exist in the same
region as the virtual machine itself.
So if you have a virtual machine in the west U.S. region then your key vote loss will have to be in
the west U.S. region.
So in this type of situation the region is very important.
Now I'm going to click the Generate import for a key now I have to give this key a name.
Now you can name it anything you want.
I'm going to call it a Z as J.D. disk encryption
just to give myself a little clue as to say this key is going to be used for disk encryption.
Now I'm going to keep the defaults here so where to use RSA a encryption algorithm and 2048 to keep
it size.
I'm not going to set activation or expiration on that and I'm going to create it in an enabled state.
So let's just create the key first.
Now once that's been done in order to encrypt a virtual machine well of course you're going to need
a virtual machine.
Now I don't have one currently running but let's create a virtual machine and I'm not going to go through
that again because we just created videos around the creating a virtual machine.
But I'm going to go through this process of creating a virtual machine make sure that the machine is
in the same region as your key vote.
As an example I'll go through this process and at the end of this I'm going to come back with the video
so let's come back to that
so I just went through the setup process for creating a virtual machine you can see here that I've chosen
the standard D.S. one virtual machine.
You can only do encryption on standard or above virtual machines and I've got all my usual information
so I'm gonna click Create and by default I'm going to create a virtual machine that even though the
storage account uses secure storage encryption the virtual machine itself is not encrypted.
Other than that so this is an unencrypted virtual machine.
By default so creating this virtual machine very fast.
Now it's less than four minutes to create a very new virtual machine.
Now I'm not going to do anything with this virtual machine we're just creating it and we just want to
encrypt the operating system disk.
I can obviously go to it and see that it's running as a standard VM actually if we go into the disk
section of the virtual machine we can see that we have an operating system disk and it is not enabled.
So the encryption of this disk is not yet enabled.
OK so what we want to do is we want to enable description on this now to do this.
I'm going to use power shall some of you may know about the Azure cloud show with this greater than
sign in the underscore up here in the top the Azure cloud show is allows you to run both command lines
in bash or power show scripts in the power show emulator.
And this is all within the browser.
So I'm going to pull this up a little bit and it's starting up a brand new power show session for me
in my browser.
Now if this is your first time running cloud show you're going to have to go through a little setup
process cloud shield needs a storage account in which it stores its files like I can do an L S here
and I can see that I have a bunch of files in the Empower show here.
And so this is a storage account associated with this and if I just delete it I would have to recreate
it.
So I have already created a cloud shell account.
So don't do that.
Now what we want to do is we want to run some partial scripts to encrypt this disk.
Now I went to the Microsoft docs Web site docs at Microsoft com has a lot of great information.
And one of the things it has is there's a script down here for encrypting the virtual machine.
So we've already gotten past the step of creating the key vault and creating the Virtual Machine itself
using the portal.
But I want to use a power show to create the virtual machine and we can see there's a sort of a standard
script here.
Now I'm going to minimize that.
Now I've copied the script out to a text editor and I modified it for my own values.
So we're going to run through this script.
One line at a time here.
And and we're going to get this new brand new virtual machine running with a bit locker encrypted disk.
Now the first line of the script is to get the key vault remember we have created or we have a key vault
running within a region.
And so we're just going to grab that and put that into a variable with the get as your arm key vault.
Next step we need the you are I for that.
Now every key vault has a universal resource identifier.
And so this year I like I can see disk wonderful Intel Yes I can.
I can basically call this as my key vault.
You are out right.
So it's a dead shady keyboard vault as done net.
Now I also need the resource.
So Microsoft for first tier resources using an I.D. system and if we were to look at the resource I.D.
we can see that their slash subscriptions.
This is my subscription I.D. slash resource groups.
This is the resource group name.
And this is the resource type and that's the name of the key vault.
And so lots of information embedded in this resource I.D. we have that in a variable.
Now we need the encryption keys so remember we created a encryption key within our key vaults so we
need to get key vault key and pass it our key vault information and then will return the key and the
actual encryption key url.
So let's all the preamble stuff.
Now we need to basically run the set piece this in here set Azure our M VM disk encryption extension
we pass it the name of our virtual machine and the resource group we pass it all the variables we've
collected in terms of the key value URL and then the key itself.
OK.
The URL in I.D. for both.
And if we run this it's going to take I'm going to hit enter it's going to tell me this command let
prepares the virtual machine enables encryption which may reboot the machine.
So this is obviously needs to take the machine down in order to enable encryption on the disk and takes
10 to 15 minutes to finish.
So if you are using a production virtual machine or this is an actively virtual machine being actively
used then you might want to stop that pause that etc..
But in this case the virtual machine just is sitting there.
So when I click yes that's going to go off and start to encrypt the operating system disk of the virtual
machine again it takes 10 to 15 minutes to run.
So I'm going to let that run.
And when we come back.
Fingers crossed hopefully our virtual machine is going to have encrypted operating system.
This.
