So we're moving on to the next section of this exam which is to implement and manage storage.
Now hopefully most of you watching this have created many many storage accounts in your career.
And so walking you through the creation of a storage account might seem a bit basic.
Now you see here as your recently changed the user interface for creating storage accounts and it actually
is very similar now to creating a virtual machine as well.
But there's a whole new fresh user interface for creating a storage account so why don't we just for
the sake of it for fun why don't we create a branded storage account so I went into the add resource
I chose storage account you'll see here that you choose your subscription you choose your reserve group.
I'm fine with the selection that it's chosen but you can also create a new resource group.
You've got to give your storage account a name.
So is it a [REMOVED] new storage.
And of course choose one of the 50 plus locations that you can store this in and choose so central U.S.
just to be all wild and crazy.
Now it's We're starting to get into now how we make some of these decisions the standard versus premium
storage account.
It hasn't changed too much from from the days when we were first learning this the standard storage
account is the physical spinning disk the magnetic storage the hard disk that we used to we used to
know and love and the premium storage is the solid state disk.
And it's a lot faster.
You'll see here when I chose standard I can choose different access tiers hot and cold we'll just talk
about in a second switching over to premium then it's too much limited amount of features.
Right.
So doesn't have the cotton cool and it doesn't.
It's only four page blobs block blobs Pemba was file shares tables and Qs will not be available.
So you'll see just by choosing the premium search account I've reduced the types of things I can do
with my storage.
I'm going to check with standard now over the years it used to just be general purpose in blob storage.
Microsoft has introduced this storage V2 storage which is the new default here.
Again General Purpose storage
the general purpose storage is for all the file types the blobs the files the tables the queues.
If we were just to go with a blob storage account the big advantage of a blob storage account is that
it can be public so we can now turn this on and public on and we can search of store files in Azure
that we can then share with her Web sites we can put her images and videos in this blob account and
that's basically publicly accessible.
Those are that's the really the big benefit of a blob storage account the replication.
I've been noticing that Azure has been removing the zone redundant storage.
So you'll see it in some places and then you won't see it in some places so we've got the choice of
locally redundant storage which stores your data plus two additional copies within the region.
And so this to me it takes advantage of the availability zones which we haven't talked about much yet
but the availability zones which allow us to create virtual machines and specific data centers globally
redundant storage does does that plus three additional copies in other regions of the world.
We'll just leave that for locally we're done in storage the access to hear something that's been out
in the last couple of years.
The basic premise is that a hot storage is immediately available so if you store something in the account
it should have the lowest latency time in terms of retrieving that.
That back to you when you go into a cool store situation.
It's actually cheaper to store that long term if you're looking at the price per gigabyte over time
a cool storage is cheaper than a hot storage but a cool storage introduces latency in the retrieval
and expense.
So basically if you've got data that you shouldn't need to access frequently but you still need to store
it like archival data backup data stuff that's purely for governance purposes or for legal requirements
you can store that in cool data and save some money.
And but when you do need to retrieve it then it's going to cost you a little bit more.
So basically it's the infrequent data versus the frequent data
now going onto the next screen.
We can force a GDP x as a CPS access which is enabled by default here.
There's no really reason to turn this off unless you have specific applications that do not handle SSL
but most of the time you should have this turned on.
Now this this access from virtual networks this is a requirement of the exam so the the exam says configure
network access to the storage account.
And so this is where we're going to be sort of focusing to start in terms of new knowledge.
Now this is called also called virtual network service endpoints in other places by default when you
create a storage account it's just generally accessible you're going to get a new URL.
It's publicly accessible your URL and as long as you have the access keys too you can be able to connect
to that storage account and then read and write and think so that you can use secure access signatures
in order to give limited access to people etc. But if we were to restrict access to this storage account
to only specific virtual network No I don't have one but we could obviously create a virtual network.
Then this is going to turn off public access.
So even if you have mice mice access keys if you're outside of this particular virtual network then
you're not going to be able to access the contents of the storage account.
So this is a security feature.
It's a lot more secure than leaving it open.
OK now you would be able to use the network security groups to secure the network if you need vignette
peering or global view net peering so you can arrange for your various applications to connect to your
storage account.
If it's even if it's restricted to a single virtual network.
But but generally this is the more secure way to go about it.
And if there isn't and if you don't have a reason for your storage account to be publicly accessible
over the internet then you might want to go this route.
All right.
So we'll see.
That's the last screen we could have set up the tags a development environment et cetera.
But let's we won't.
We want it this time so I can just hit create and this will create me a brand new storage account and
we're going to pause that and come back when it's done.
