All right.
So for the sake of the rest of this chapter I'm going to actually remove the restriction.
I'm gonna say allow access from all networks and save that.
That way we can access this now back again from our personal computers.
Now let's talk about shared access signatures.
This is another security feature a shared basically when you go into a storage account the core way
that you can access a storage account is through access keys.
Now you can see here on screen.
Microsoft gives me two access keys by default.
OK.
So basically when I'm going to go into my vote in a Visual Studio Net program I'm going to grab this
connection string it has the account key embedded in the connection string and anyone with this account
key even even you watching this video can have full Owner permissions to the storage account you can
connect to it.
Put files in there you can do a lot of stuff using the API with the act.
My access key.
Microsoft gives you two.
Now the purpose of giving you two is so that you can primarily use one if you do need to use security
keys and then let's say something happens and you want to change your security key.
Well as soon as you change your security key all your existing applications will stop working.
So what you want to do is switch your applications to the second key and when that's all confirmed and
everything has been tested then you can regenerate your first key.
So basically having two keys allows you to switch the keys without breaking your applications.
Now again B you have to be very careful about disclosing this.
You do not want if you have many many many applications in your environment or partners partner companies
that need to store files you maybe you don't want to be giving away your access keys because changing
them is such a hassle and the amount of power that it gives them is total.
So you cannot just restrict somebody to a single read activity they would juts have full access.
So this is how you manage your access keys you basically do one do another let's regenerate this one.
So the current key becomes immediately invalid.
And so it's now regenerated a brand new key for me and that other key is immediately invalid.
Now let's talk about shared access signatures as an alternative to giving away your access keys.
So you're always going to have access keys but instead of sharing them with people why don't you try
using a shared access signature so shared access signatures allows you to be very specific with your
security so you can say well I only want this particular person or application to be able to write to
the queue.
So I'm going to remove blob file and table storage and all they have is queue storage and they can write
to the queue but they can't delete the queue.
They can't do.
They can't do anything other than write to the queue.
OK so you give them very specific permissions.
You can say we want this to be a one year access or January 1st access etc. You can specify pacified
the source IP addresses and in or not specify issued to us only and you see here the key is that we're
signing this with our access key.
So the access key isn't going away.
What we're doing is we're using the key to create an access signature.
So going to see generate secure access signature.
And now we can see that there's a brand new type of connection string that does not have our access
key into it.
We can also copy the you or else so this contains the SAS token or we can use this full on you or else
I'm going to say copy.
Now if we were to go over to a web browser let's see how this reacts All right.
So I switched over to the web browser here and you can see that I've pasted the zoom a little bit here
hopefully you can see that I've pasted the url of my cue into the browser address bar and I ran a very
simple query that basically says give me the list of the cubes.
Now this one just says resource not found.
So because I don't have a secure access key or anything it's just denying the existence of it which
is great behavior because you don't want people to know that the storage account exists if they don't
pass the key.
Now if I was to go grab the grab the key I have to append the key to the secure access signature to
my your URL and you'll say.
Now you're getting a different message saying the request is not authorized.
We go back to the Azure portal and you can see that I only have given this right permissions I have
not given it permissions to list the queues.
So if I change this to see list permissions regenerate the key the secure access token I'm going to
re copy it go up to my browser window and replaced it.
Now I have given myself the right permissions to be able to list the queues I don't have any was in
this particular account but this is the successful result.
Even though it's empty.
So instead of handing out your access keys you can generate secure access signatures it has embedded
dates and times in there if you if that's something you want.
Use your key to sign it.
The other thing too is if I go back here and I regenerate my key again this secure access signature
is signed with the key K. if I go back to secure access signature it's signed with key number one.
And so therefore
because I changed my key I'm now getting an authentication error.
OK so it has the secure access signature but now the signature is no longer valid because I reset the
key I would have to regenerate the secure access signature with the new key.
And so that's another form of security being able to invalidate your secure access signatures through
by regenerating your key.
