So we've been playing around the storage account here.
But we always have to keep in the back of her mind things like monitoring and logging and metrics and
alerts.
So right off the overview screen there is some basic monitoring so we can see storage account top level
metrics for the day by default.
And then it's going to have data in data out.
It's going to have the response time for queries and what types of requests are coming into the storage
account.
Now I just created this storage account so all we have is what we've been playing with.
We obviously could break this down into a quick queue queries which we certainly were playing with blob
account queries which we were certainly playing with as well.
So it's basic monitoring at that top level.
We really want to navigate towards is log analytics.
OK.
So basically a lot of this monitoring has been lifted and put into log analytics.
Let's go into all services type the word log.
We're going to go into log Analytics.
Now we have this log in Alex a workspace that we've previously created if you haven't created it now's
a good time to create it.
And if we go down and look at data sources we can see that our Azure account the pay as you go subscription
my top level account is already connected to this workspace.
And so all activities from this should already be tracked.
So I'm going to go back up.
I'm going to go into the logs section I can actually make some more space on screen here go into the
logs section and we know that the the Azure activities is going to be under Azure activity table if
you will if I run this.
I can see that in the past 24 hours there's been seventy seven activities against this account.
What we might want to start doing is limiting this to certain things so I can see where this tool tip
pops up.
I can see Resource Group equals and we were operating on the A-Z one to one G.
In my case and now I can basically filtering those 77 activities down to only fifty five using the filters
on the left.
I can scroll down I can see that create update storage account get the storage account keys so every
time I'm going to apply that every time using the Azure portal and minimize that.
Yep that I got the list of keys it's being locked.
And so if you need details on a which user was getting your account keys this would be like a tip for
that maybe the account keys is not what we're looking for I'm going to remove that and we'll go back
you can't have any blank lines in here.
Hit Run again.
The data comes back and the filters update.
So now I can see other types of operations so the creating of a stored the storage account itself is
listed here and I can see that there's been 15 activities done on the storage account as we were playing
around with it.
Came in and removed that
run
and the regeneration that we did.
So a couple of times we regenerated our account key so log analytics because it's hooked up the work
and got the work space all of my top level Azure activities have been recorded and we can start to run
queries to see what happened who happened why if errors were happening.
This is so far just informational information.
Now I will point out you will see let's open this back up down into the data sources you will see storage
accounts as being one of the data sources and you might be tempted to go oh I'm just going to add my
storage account that I just created as a data source.
The thing what did this data source here is that it's looking for specific log files in order for those
log files to be at any any interesting to log analytics.
We have to choose not just the storage account but the data type.
And so you'll see that service fabric events IRS logs Linux events windows events these things.
It's going to look in your storage account for those contents.
So if you're using your storage account as a destination for logs to be stored then yeah you could definitely
set this up as a storage account logging event but the top level Azure activity is what's going to monitor
the comings and goings of access to that storage account.
So if you do need to set up alerts reports etc you're gonna be based it off of the azure activity except
if you've got accounts that are feeding logs into that storage account.
