Now Azure gives us many different ways to give others access to the contents of our storage accounts.
We've already seen that access keys is sort of the central element of a storage account.
You do not want to be giving away these access keys to too many people are really to anybody if you
can avoid it.
The shared access signature was one way that you can generate a token Ellery you are all that you can
grant to others that can have limited permissions that expire without having to touch your access keys.
Microsoft also gives another method using role based access control or are back if you go under the
storage account under the Access Control tab then we can see a familiar access control interface.
This access control is on almost every resource with in Azure so we can go into here we can click on
role assignments and we can see a list of applications and other services that have been given access
to this account and even other individuals that have been granted as guest access.
If we click on add and we click on Add role assignments we'll be given up this tab where we get to choose
an individual.
So I'm going to choose this John Doe account which doesn't currently have access to this storage account
through our back at all.
When we open the dropdown for the role we can see the typical owner contributor reader roles which can
be granted to your entire subscription effectively but if we scroll down a little bit we can see a lot
of storage based access rules.
So we've got the storage account contributor the storage account key operator blob related roles file
related roles and queue related roles.
So let's say you want this John Doe to be able to basically read blob data.
So you choose the storage block data reader role grant that's this John Doe and say save now does take
about five minutes for this to propagate but within about five minutes the any application or user that
authenticates with Azure Active Directory as John Doe will have reader access to this storage account.
So in this way we're using rule based access control to control access to a storage account.
Now we can see that this role has been granted for this resource only and not across this of corruption.
If we left this storage account went to another storage account into access controls we can scroll down
and we will not see the John Doe account that has been granted access to that.
So using this technique actually restricts their scope by only being scoped on this individual resource.
