So lastly let's talk about replicating data now when we set up this storage account we briefly talked
about the different replication options within the portal we have the locally redundant storage geo
redundant storage and read access we're done in storage.
There is a thing called the zone are done in storage that is accessible through power show and CSI.
If we wanted to be sort of in-between let's talk about what the scenarios are for locally redundant
storage so that's going to keep three copies of our data within the data center.
Basically packed up.
Now this is the cheapest storage.
Microsoft is offering what's called eleven nines availability a durability.
So that means that if you successfully write data to locally redundant storage Microsoft's going to
keep that data because they've got two additional copies ninety nine point nine 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 percent
of the time that's a that is basically a heck of a lot.
OK.
So they're not going to lose your data if you successfully are able to write it.
Now the downside of having locally redundant storage is if the entire datacenter goes down then you're
going to not be able to get access to your data.
If by poor chance your data is stored in that data center.
Now to understand when we have a region like we have US East region I think this is stored in central
got backup here.
This is stored in south central U.S. south central U.S. is made up of multiple data centers.
OK so with one single data center goes down in my data happens to be stored in it then I'm not going
to have access to that data but until that data center is restored.
Now if I was able to select zone redundant storage which I can do through partial then I would be protected
against a single data center going down because then the data would be stored in other data centers.
OK.
So out of my three copies of data a two of them would still be accessible if one data center goes down.
So zone redundant storage protects you against a single building in a data in a region having problems
when you upgrade to a geo redundant storage.
Now you're getting outside of your region right.
So now your data is being stored in other places of the world.
Now what you're protected against if the entire south central region goes down then the Microsoft will
be able to pull your data from another region that it stores it in.
Okay.
So that is an additional level of protection in terms of being able to access your data when you upgrade
to geo redundant storage.
You're getting 16 nines durability so that's an additional five nines over locally redundant storage
and which is an incredible amount of durability basically.
You would have to store.
Let's let's briefly count here.
A million billion trillion you'd have to store a hundred trillion items in order to lose one.
That's a lot.
So the more you go from locally redundant storage up to geo redundant storage the more higher guarantee
you have that Microsoft will never lose that file and then the protection you have against the building
going down or the zone going down the region going down et cetera by choosing finally by choosing the
read access one then you are able to read from that other area.
So with all the other replications Microsoft takes care of it Azure takes care of it.
You don't have access to that data specifically.
You read from your storage account and Azure takes care of the accessibility with read access then you
can access the secondary region for this.
OK again same 16 nines availability the only additional thing you get is the ability to read.
So that's the concept of replication within your storage account.
There is cost associated with this.
So if I was to change this from locally redundant to geo redundant then basically Microsoft is going
to start sending my files and fortunately I only have two of them to other regions of the world and
I'm going to pay for the bandwidth of that.
Right.
So in Java Dennis storage is a little bit more expensive too.
So there is additional costing implementations but it's so it's not that much.
