So let's talk about fail over for storage accounts.
Now Microsoft has introduced a preview feature that allows you to do fail over on a globally redundant
storage account.
In this case I've created a read Axis geo redundant storage are ACARS storage account.
Now if I go into the properties of this account we can see that doing so with the read access element
of it creates both primary and secondary endpoints.
So the primary endpoint is for all the reading and writing and all of the things that you need to do
on the storage account.
Whereas this secondary endpoint is only a read access endpoint.
And so you can configure your application manually to use this endpoint for all your reads and writes.
And if the restart to fail to use this endpoint for reads now unfortunate there's no backup for the
rights.
So what the fail over allows you to do is if this region does go down let's say I created this in the
west U.S. to region.
And so if West U.S. too does happen to have an outage then we can initiate a fail over and create the
west central U.S. as the primary region.
Now unfortunately this is a previous feature.
And what that means is two things One is it's not ready for production yet.
So you're you're not supposed to use preview features in production but the second thing is I'm not
even able to show it to you because it's in private preview and you have to apply.
Now if we look at the documentation for this then we can see that this is for the read Axis redundancy
and there is a risk of data loss.
So when we go down to this diagram here we can see with read access redundancy you've got your three
copies of your data in the primary region and you got three copies of your data in that secondary region.
This happens to be West U.S. two in west central U.S..
In my case and you've got synchronization one we say synchronization going on and it is a synchronous
which means at any moment there still might be some bytes or kilobytes of data that have not yet been
synchronized.
So if we get an outage situation where you're not able to to read or write to an account and the whole
region has gone down that typically means the replication has stopped as well.
And so there might very well be some difference between the secondary region and the primary region
because the sync with the replication is not instantaneous so in the preview feature you can instantiate
a fail over and that will turn your secondary region into the primary region.
Now it does not automatically create a secondary region and it does not go back when the east the west
U.S. 2 comes back on line.
So once you initiate the failover you're basically going to have to set this up again if you want to
restore it.
OK.
It moves to an LR RSA account once the fail over has been completed.
Now the previous only available in eight regions so two in Asia two in Australia four in the United
States and is intended for non production use only.
But the trick here is at the current time you do have to register for the preview.
It does take five to seven days to get approval.
Now the reason I'm saying this is because this is a topic on the exam and so you may be asked not necessarily
how to set it up but there might be some situation where you would want to set up a redundancy or a
fail over for your storage account.
And this is going to be the way to do it.
Unfortunately at the time of recording it's not quite ready.
