 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers. 
 And welcome to this lecture in this lecture. 
 We're going to go ahead and register a domain name. 
 The easiest way to learn anything with AWB is to start using it. 
 So we're going to register a domain name and then we're going to go in and start looking at all the 
 different route 53 rooting policies and what we're gonna do is we're going to use this domain name to 
 try out the different rooting policies. 
 So in this lab we're going to go ahead and register domain name and then we're going to go in and set 
 up three easy two instances. 
 Each one is going to be in a different area in the world and then we'll be ready to start learning about 
 the different route 53 rooting policies and then we'll actually be able to go in and start testing them. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the adobe us console. 
 OK so here I am in the adobe us console. 
 I'm going to go over to services now you'll find a route 53 under networking so if you just scroll down 
 here it is networking and content delivery and you go ahead and click on Route 53. 
 So the very first thing we're going to do before we get started with the Route 53 is we're going to 
 go in and we're going to register a domain name so we're gonna go down here and hit domain registration. 
 Now domain registration is not free. 
 So do bear that in mind. 
 I'm going to go ahead to here and hit registered domain and then you just have to pick a domain name 
 that you want. 
 So I'm going to go ahead and register domain something like Hello cloud gurus 2019. 
 Let's see if that is available. 
 I'm going to go ahead and check and it is available sir Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com is available. 
 I'm going to go ahead and add that to my cart and then what I'm going to do is I'm going to scroll down 
 and hit continue. 
 Now you have to go in and fill out the register registrant contact because it does contain quite a lot 
 of personal information including my phone number. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and fill it all out and then I'm gonna go ahead and hit continue. 
 So I'm just gonna pause a video here. 
 Once you've done that you'll see this screen and all you need to do is accept the terms and conditions 
 and go ahead and complete your purchase. 
 And that has now been registered sometimes domain names can take up to three days to complete. 
 So do bear that in mind but it's normally a lot quicker. 
 It will usually take one or two hours and you'll be able to see your domain in here. 
 So we can see Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com domain registration is in progress and if we click on registered 
 domains we can't yet see it in here. 
 But once that is registered it will appear here. 
 So I'm just going to pause a video for a couple of hours and I'm going to wait for this to register. 
 OK. 
 So I'm just gonna go ahead and refresh the page and we can now see that the domain registration has 
 been successful and I can see it in my hosted zone. 
 So if I go in here this is my hosted zones and this is where we go in and configure Route 53 we basically 
 go in and add things like a records and see names et cetera. 
 So we are going to do this in the next lab. 
 But first what we need to do is we need to go over and provision our easy two instances. 
 So let's go over to easy to see right now I'm in the Irish region and I'm going to go ahead and launch 
 an instance. 
 Now I want you to think about where it is you are so physically I'm based in London and I want to use 
 a region that's very close to me because we're gonna be looking at latency and then geographical rooting 
 as well. 
 So I'm going to pick Ireland I also want a region that's very far away from me so Sydney is basically 
 the opposite side of the world so I'm going to pick Sydney and then I want somewhere sort of in-between. 
 So I'm gonna go ahead and pick Ohio. 
 So I'm going to launch into the Ohio region the Sydney region and into the Irish region. 
 Now if you haven't used a one of these regions before you will have to set up a security group and you 
 will have to get your key pair. 
 We're going to use a bootstrap script so scroll all the way down to this bootstrap script is available 
 in the resources section of the course. 
 All it's doing is it's doing a yam update. 
 It's installing Apache it's making sure Apache restarts if the easy to instance goes down it's then 
 starting the Apache service it's going overtime. 
 Var dub dub dub reached here male directory and then it's basically making a little web page that says 
 hello cloud gurus. 
 This is ex web server and then it's going to output that to index not reached him else he will need 
 to change the x to watch whichever region that you're in. 
 So I'm just gonna copy this into my clipboard pasted in here and I'm gonna go ahead and change it. 
 So this is the then Irish web server and then I'm gonna go ahead and add my storage and if you want 
 to watch me go through all this. 
 Feel free to skip ahead. 
 I know it can be a little bit boring. 
 Just jump ahead to about six minutes thirty and that's where we'll cover off my exam tips. 
 So I'm going to add my web DMZ security group. 
 Go ahead and hit review and launch and launch and then I do have access to this keeper and then the 
 next place I'm going over is to the Sydney region. 
 I'm going to do exactly the same thing. 
 I don't think I've ever used the Sydney region in this account. 
 So I will need to create my own security group and download my keeper just gonna go over to Sydney. 
 Gonna go ahead and launch my easy to instance gonna leave everything as default again I'm gonna go to 
 my advance details in a paste this in here and I'm going to change this to the Sydney web server I'm 
 going to add my storage leave that is default I don't need any tags I'm going to create a new security 
 group call it Web DMC web DMZ and I'm going to open up port 80 to the world and then we go and then 
 I'm going to go ahead and launch that and I need to create a new key pair and call it my Sydney key 
 I'm going to download that and now I'm gonna go ahead and launch my instance. 
 So that's launched my instance in Sydney. 
 And then finally I'm going to go over to the Ohio region so Ohio and then I'm gonna go ahead and launch 
 my instance in there. 
 So again I'm gonna use Amazon Linux. 
 Am I. 
 I don't think I've ever used the Ohio region either. 
 I'm going to put in my bootstrap script pasted in here. 
 So this is the Ohio web server next to me and add my storage at my tags at my security groups create 
 a new security group Web DMZ a web DMZ. 
 I'm gonna add in Port 80. 
 Open that up to the world and I'm gonna go ahead and review and launch and then I'm gonna create my 
 new key pair my Ohio key pair and then we go of launch my third easy to instance. 
 So we're all set up to do the next few labs. 
 So we got our three easy two instances around the world and we've registered our domain name. 
 So what are my exam tests. 
 Just remember that you can buy domain names directly with eight of us and then also remember that it 
 can take up to three days to register depending on the circumstances. 
 Now like I said in the DNS one one lecture I literally did the exam a couple of weeks ago and there 
 was no route 53 questions in there whatsoever. 
 That being said you cannot be a solutions architect and not know how route 53 works and how DNS works 
 and the different rooting methods. 
 And to be honest you know it could have just been my exam. 
 I do try and take them as much as I can. 
 And I've been doing the solutions architect associate exams since 2014 so I've got five years of experience 
 in doing this and there's always in the last five years there's almost always been route 53 questions 
 so you do need to know this for real life and you probably would need to know this in your exam. 
 But just like I said the last exam that I sat didn't have any route 53 questions on it. 
 Maybe it was just a one off. 
 Anyway that's it for this lecture guys. 
 If you've got the time please join me in the next lecture where we're going to cover all the different 
 types of rooting policies available to us with Route 53.