 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at our simple rooting 
 policy so simple rooting policy is basically where you can only have one record with multiple IP addresses. 
 And if you specify multiple values in a record Route 53 returns all values to the user in a random order. 
 So if our user they're making a DNS request to Route 53 and we've got two IP addresses in here our first 
 is 30 dot dot 0 1. 
 Our second is 30 dot dot dot too. 
 And basically Route 53 just picks these in random orders. 
 Let's go over to the US consulate and see this in action. 
 I mean the adobe US Consul Now you may just want to go over too easy to and write down your three different 
 IP addresses. 
 I've already done that I've pasted them into my clipboard. 
 Once you have done that let's go over to our networking go over to Route 53. 
 We're going to go into our hosted zone and you can click in here and we can go to our record sets. 
 What we're going to do is create a record set and we're going to just leave this as the zone apex or 
 naked domain names so it's just going to be Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com. 
 And in here we can change the types so we can do see names airMAX records Triple A RECORD OF sorry quadruple 
 A records text PTA S.R. vs SPF Napster CAA and then name servers as well and we can see our NASA records 
 over here. 
 And you'll note that Amazon always give you different top level domains. 
 So in case the co dot uk goes down we still have dot org and dot net and dot com. 
 So we do. 
 But it's gonna be very unlikely that all four of those are going to go down at the same time unless 
 there's some kind of war or something. 
 So what we're going to do is we're just going to paste in our IP addresses in here it says enter multiple 
 addresses on separate lines. 
 So in here I've got my Sydney server my Ohio server and my Irish server. 
 And then on all I'm going to do is go ahead and hit create. 
 And that has now created it. 
 So let's go over and test this. 
 So in here I'm just going to write. 
 Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com. 
 And there we go. 
 We've hit the Irish web server. 
 Now if I refresh that it's going to stay on the Irish web server and this is DNS in action. 
 Essentially what's happened is my browser has cached a IP address to Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com 
 and it's just going to that IP they go back to Route 53 we can change this behavior by lowering our 
 TTL to one minute. 
 So I'm going to go ahead and do that and hit save records set. 
 Now it's gonna take me about six minutes for this to change. 
 So I'm just gonna go ahead and pause the video. 
 Okay. 
 So I'm just gonna refresh now and there you go we've hit the Ohio web server. 
 And if I continue to refresh it's just going to stay on Ohio until my TTL clears it from my cache something 
 you can do to speed this up is you can go ahead and flush your DNS the commands vary between Windows 
 and Mac. 
 It's very easy to Google so you can just go into the command or into your terminal window and flush 
 your DNS as well. 
 And then you can see this in action. 
 So onto my exam tips just remember a simple rooting policy is. 
 It's basically the simplest one that you can get. 
 You only have one record in your DNS and it has multiple IP addresses. 
 And if you specify multiple IP addresses route 53 is going to return all the values to a user in a random 
 order. 
 So that's it for this lecture guys if you've got any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next lecture. 
 Thank you.