 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to learn about latency based 
 routing or rooting so latency based rooting allows you to reach your traffic based on the lowest network 
 latency for your end user. 
 And that just basically means which region is going to give them the fastest response time and to use 
 latency base rooting you create a latency resource records set for the easy to or elastic load balancer 
 resource in each region hosting a Web site and then when Route 53 receives a query for your site it's 
 lets the latency records set for the region that gives the user the lowest latency Route 53 then responds 
 with the value associated with that record set. 
 So again we've got a user this users in South Africa and they're going to make a request to Route 53 
 and Route 53 is going to look at the different response times so it's going to figure out that we've 
 got a 54 millisecond response time for EU West 2 whereas the user will get 300 milliseconds response 
 time for AP South Asia Pacific southeast too. 
 And so what it's going to do is it's essentially going to send the traffic to the EU West to because 
 it has a much lower latency than AP south east too. 
 So let's go ahead and see this in action. 
 Okay. 
 So I'm back in my web browser I can see now that I can't resolve Hello Kluger is 2019 dot com I actually 
 deleted the records about an hour ago went and had some lunch and I came back and I was refreshing and 
 it was still there. 
 So that is Route 53 inaction or DNS inaction. 
 Sometimes it can take quite a long time to propagate. 
 So let's go ahead and create a new record set in here. 
 I'm going to use my naked domain name or zone Apex record pace my IP address in there. 
 That's my first ip address which is for my Sydney server and then I'm going to change this to latency 
 base rooting and in here it's saying Route 53 response to queries based on latency that you specify 
 in this and other records sets have the same name and type and straightaway it's already detected that 
 the region is AP south east too. 
 And if I type in here Sydney that will give me a set idea and then we can associate it with our health 
 check and we can go ahead and select our Sydney health check centre go ahead and hit create that has 
 now created the record. 
 Let's go in and do the next one. 
 So this one in here's my Ohio one. 
 Can I change this to latency. 
 And again it has detected that it's us E two and I'm going to change this to Ohio and then I'm gonna 
 associate it with a health check and choose the Ohio health check and go ahead and hit create and then 
 we're gonna do one last one and we're gonna go ahead to latency and I'm gonna go in and paste my IP 
 address in here and then it's detected it's Island as well I'm gonna call this island and then associate 
 with health check getting hit yes and I'm going to put it in here and go ahead and hit create. 
 So there's my three different record sets. 
 I go over here and hit refresh and it's actually sending me to Ohio it's giving me a lower latency in 
 Ohio even though I'm in London and Ireland is just down the road so fired up a VPN client called Nord 
 VPN and what I'm gonna do is I'm going to VPN into Australia so or peer to Amazon that I'm actually 
 based in Australia. 
 So is now connecting and it has now connected and if I refresh my browser there we go. 
 It's now directing me to Sydney when I come back I could actually try and go over to Ireland. 
 So here's Ireland here and we're gonna go ahead and hit connect that is now connected and if we go back 
 over here and hit refresh I'm now on the Irish web server and just to try one last thing. 
 I've gone back to the United Kingdom. 
 I'm gonna refresh here and under my VPN I'm now getting better latency with Ireland and to test this 
 one last time we can go back over to the United States and connect in there. 
 And if I hit refresh I should get the Ohio web server so it looked like I was just having some intimate 
 Internet issues and it was probably quicker for me to connect to Ohio than it was for me to connect 
 to Ireland. 
 Going to go back over to Route 53 and I'm gonna go ahead and delete those records sets and go ahead 
 and hit confirm. 
 And so onto my exam tips just remember about latency base reading so if you've got your South African 
 user and they're connecting in to Route 53 Route 53 is going to look at the latency and it's going to 
 choose the one that's lowest it's going to choose this one which is 54 milliseconds and direct them 
 to EU w 2 and it is lots of fun to test it using different VPN clients as well so that is it for this 
 lecture everyone in the next lecture we're going to learn about fail over routine policies so if you've 
 got the time please join me in the next lecture thank you.