 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to learn about failover rooting 
 policies so failure recruiting policies are used when you want to create an active passive setup. 
 So for example you may want your primary site to be an E W W2 and your secondary D.R. site to be in 
 AP Southeast too and Route 53 or monitor the health of your primary site using a health check and a 
 health check just monitors the health of your endpoints. 
 So let's have a look at how this works are users connecting in to Route 53 by doing a DNS request. 
 We've got our active and our passive sites are active is e w 1 and our passive is AP se 2 we lose EU 
 w 1 or us 2 as it is on the slide and then what's going to happen. 
 Well our active is going to fail over automatically over to Al passive Web sites so that's all it is. 
 It's very very simple. 
 Let's go ahead and have a look at how we can set this up in the W S console. 
 Okay sir. 
 In the route 53 section of the console. 
 Gonna go into my hosted zones and I've deleted my last day records. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and create a record set. 
 I'm gonna use. 
 Just make this my Zune Apex record a naked domain name. 
 Gonna paste in here my Irish IP address and then I'm gonna change my rooting policy to fail over and 
 in here we define what is this the primary or the secondary I'm gonna say it's a primary and of course 
 we do want to associate this with a health check and we're going to associate this with our Irish health 
 check and I'm gonna go ahead and hit create then what we're going to do is create a second record set 
 I'm gonna make Ohio as my secondary sites I'm going to paste in my IP address in there and I go over 
 here and do fail over to make this the secondary and we don't necessarily have to associate this with 
 the health check because it is our secondary site but you can do it anyway so I'm just gonna do that 
 and put Ohio is giving me this warning about our titles so I'm going to change our TTL down to 60 seconds 
 I'm gonna go ahead and hit create and I'm just gonna go back and make sure that this TTL is going to 
 be 60 seconds as well and get it down and go ahead and hit create. 
 So now I've got my TTL is down to 60 seconds I've got my primary and my secondary. 
 And by clicking in here we can see that it is fail over rooting. 
 So let's go ahead and quickly just test this. 
 So if I refresh my browser and there we go we can see it says Hello Clyde cloud gurus This is the Irish 
 web server. 
 Let's go ahead and stop our easy to instant. 
 So I'm going to go over to E2 and I need to make sure I go to the Irish region which I'm in. 
 And then what I'm going to do is just grab this instance and I'm gonna go ahead and stop it. 
 So instant state stop yes stop. 
 And that has now stopped my instance. 
 And of course what's going to happen is it's going to fail the health check now with everything with 
 DNS you need to be patient. 
 You may need to wait five or ten minutes so just bear that in mind. 
 Let's go back over to Route 53. 
 I'm going to go here and look at my health checks and I'm just going to wait for this health check to 
 go down. 
 Okay. 
 So it's been about five minutes. 
 Just gonna hit refresh and we can see that it is now unhealthy in Ireland. 
 And if we go over to my to my domain and I hit refresh and it's failed over automatically to Ohio. 
 Just gonna go back over here go to my dashboard and into my hosted zones and I mean and go ahead and 
 delete those two records and so hit in here and in here and delete those two records sets and hit confirm. 
 So going into your exam just remember this how fail over rooting policies work. 
 So essentially you've got your user the type in your domain name it hits Route 53 we've got an active 
 and passive site are active could be us two and our passive site could be AP se to we lose our active 
 site. 
 What's gonna happen is the health check is going to fail. 
 Route 53 is gonna detect this and it's going to fail over automatically to AP s e to. 
 So that is it for this lecture everyone in the next lecture we're gonna go ahead and learn about geo 
 location routing policies. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.