 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at geo location rooting 
 policies. 
 Geo location rooting policies lets you choose where your traffic will be sent based on the geographical 
 location of your users i.e. the location from which the DNS queries originate. 
 For example you might want all queries from Europe to be routed to a fleet of easy two instances that 
 are specifically configured for your European customers. 
 So these might be a little web servers that are using the euro symbols rather than the US dollar symbol 
 for example. 
 And these servers might also have the local language of your European customers and all price displayed 
 in euros et cetera et cetera. 
 Let's have a look at how this works. 
 So we've got our European customers they're connecting in a hit Route 53 with a DNS query and it's automatically 
 routed through to EU West 1 got our US customers they hit Route 53 with a DNS query and that's automatically 
 routed over to us at E1. 
 So geo location reading is very very simple. 
 Don't confuse it with the latency base reading as you saw in the latency base reading lab. 
 Even though I'm in London it was always getting better latency over to Ohio than I was getting it over 
 to Ireland. 
 And if you really need to lock down which users are going to which are easy to instances then you probably 
 want to use geo location rooting over latency base rooting. 
 So let's go over to the database console. 
 Okay so here I am in the database console. 
 Just gonna go over too easy too and I just want to show you something. 
 So I've got my Irish easy to instance we stop that in the last lecture. 
 I have gone in and started it again. 
 But what's happened is the public IP address has now changed and because of public IP address is now 
 changed. 
 I need to go in and update all my health checks now the way you stop that from happening is you provision 
 up with a dedicated IP V for address. 
 That's one way of doing it. 
 But as we go throughout the rest this course we're going to just start using Elastic Load balances and 
 you don't get IP addresses with Elastic Load balances you then just using DNS names. 
 So let's go over to Route 53 which of course is always under network and content delivery. 
 Just gonna go over to my health checks and you can see that this health check is now unhealthy. 
 I can go in and edit it just by clicking up here. 
 Edit health check and I'm gonna change the IP address here to 34. 
 Whatever it is they're gonna go ahead and hit save. 
 I'm just going to pause a video for a couple of minutes and I've just refreshed the screen and it is 
 now healthy. 
 So let's go over to our dashboard. 
 We're going to go into our hosted zones and we're gonna go in here and we're gonna create a new record 
 set. 
 So again it's gonna be my zone Apex I'm going to change this to TTL to 60 seconds and I'm gonna paste 
 in my my IP address. 
 So this is the new one I'm just going to delete that out. 
 So this is for Ireland and then my rooting policy. 
 I'm gonna change this to geo location and in here I'm gonna choose my location and your location can 
 be done on continents and it can also be done in countries. 
 So I'm gonna send my European users over to Europe. 
 I'm gonna type Europe in here and then I'm going to associate this with the health check as well and 
 I'm going to go ahead and associate this to the Irish health check and go ahead and hit create. 
 So that is now sending my European customers over to Europe. 
 Let's go ahead and create one more record set. 
 I'm gonna paste in here my Ohio server's IP address gonna change this to geo location and then my location 
 I'm going to change this to North America and I'm going to say USA and in here I'm going to associate 
 this of the health check and I'm going to associate it with my health check to Ohio. 
 And go ahead and hit create. 
 So now if we go back up over here to Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com. 
 Have gone in and hit refresh and it is now going taking me over to my Irish web server. 
 I've got a VPN client open up here and I'm actually a VPN in Sweden right now. 
 If I go over to the United States let's see what happens. 
 That's now connected into the United States. 
 I hit refresh and it's taking me over to Ohio. 
 So it's basically it's reading my traffic based on where I am. 
 So in terms of my exam tips just remember exactly what geo location reading is it allows you to send 
 your European customers over to your European servers and allows you to send your U.S. customers over 
 to their servers. 
 So basically routes traffic based on your users location. 
 Not to be confused with latency based rooting. 
 So that is it for this lecture everyone in the next lecture we're going to look at geo proximity rooting. 
 This is where you start going down the route 53 rabbit hole it gets very very complicated. 
 And to be honest it goes beyond the scope of the certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 It's almost beyond the scope of the certified Solutions Architect professional exam. 
 It is really really complicated. 
 We'll go have a quick look at it but we're not gonna spend a lot of time on it. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.