 
 WEBVTT 
 OK. 
 Hello bloggers and welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is on a geo proximity rooting and this is available in traffic flow only mode and we'll 
 see what that means in a few seconds so geo proximity rooting lets Amazon's Route 53 route traffic to 
 your resources based on the geographical location of your users as well as your resources and you can 
 also optionally choose to route more traffic or less to a given resource by specifying a value known 
 as a bias and a bias expands or shrinks the size of a geographic region for which a traffic is routed 
 to a resource and to use geo proximity rooting you must use Route 53 traffic flow. 
 So let's go over and have a quick look at this in action. 
 Okay so here I am in Route 53 I'm just gonna go through and delete the record sets from the last lecture 
 and so there we go. 
 Now you'll see. 
 Over here it says traffic flow. 
 And in here you have traffic policies. 
 And then you have policy records. 
 So let's go over to traffic flow and what we're going to do is we're gonna go ahead and create a traffic 
 policy. 
 Gonna give this a name call it Hello cloud gurus say hello cloud gurus and you can give it a version 
 description and there if you want. 
 I'm not going to. 
 And next we go ahead and we start configuring this and this is where it gets really really complicated. 
 We've got all our different DNS types. 
 We're going to go ahead and add an IP file and we're gonna say Hey when we connect in using IP V for 
 let's connect to and then we can do things like a Geo proximity rule. 
 And in here this is where we can enter in our Google locations. 
 So we enter in latitude or longer tude we enter in our bias in here we can associate it with a health 
 check and that's defining our first region. 
 Then we have our second region and then we can say hey I want to connect to and then you can go in and 
 add endpoints or all kinds of different rules and this is what I mean by going down the DNS rabbit hole 
 you can create extremely complicated traffic policies for your environment. 
 It goes completely beyond the scope of the certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 It's not even tested in the certified Solutions Architect professional exam. 
 This is where you're designing your. 
 This is what your network engineers essentially would do they would be going in and creating these massive 
 sort of traffic policies. 
 So in terms of my exam tips just remember what it is a very high level allows you to route traffic to 
 your resources based on the geographical location of your users as well as your resources and you can 
 influence this using biases. 
 But in order to use this you must use Route 53 traffic flow. 
 So that is it for this lecture everyone in the next lecture. 
 We have the very last rooting policy which is multi value answers and then we'll go ahead and summarize 
 and then we're ready to move on to VPC which becomes a lot more interesting the Route 53 but you need 
 to understand Route 53 before you move on to BPC because you need to know how to route DNS traffic to 
 your vapes so if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture.