So in this section of the course we're going be talking about Azure service fabric.
Now so far in this course we've talked about various compute styles under the Azure compute category.
We've talked about virtual machines web apps containers including Cooper nanny's functions and logic
apps.
So in this section really talking about what's called Service fabric.
Now what is a service fabric.
This is Microsoft's implementation of a micro services style of architecture.
So micro services are a different architectural style different than traditional whether you're a client
server app or a three tier application or whatever the application style that you're creating micro
services are just another type of style.
Now the micro in micro services means the services are quite small.
Typically you want to break up what is a large monolithic application.
Even if it's a client server or an integer or a three tier you still need to breakup those applications
into many smaller applications.
Now each of those smaller applications called micro services has a defined purpose.
And so you've got the log in service you've got the e mail service the printing service the reporting
service et cetera these services can then be independent of each other.
They can live in their own code bases they can have different teams working on them different developers
those developers don't need to sit side by side elbow to elbow working together on the code on different
code bases because once you've defined the API then the API is the only thing that really matters and
the stuff that's inside the code can be done independently.
They can make their own decisions.
One can be a no J.S. app that there could be a java app.
The other could be a dot net app etc. You can also have different databases so maybe SQL Server database
makes sense over here.
Cosmo's DB makes sense over here and just the Azure storage blob container makes sense over there.
Now if you do it right.
All of these services are not dependent on each other and that means you can develop them separately
test them separately deploy them without affecting each other.
Now you might think with this micros service this sounds a bit weird but you may be using services that
are micro services and not even realize it.
So a bunch of Azure services and Microsoft services are including SQL database Cosmo's D.B. power by
Skype for business.
These are all applications developed in the micro services style I grabbed this quote from the Microsoft
Web site but basically when you're using Azure sequel database you don't think about it but there's
a cluster of servers that are running behind there and that dot cluster is hundreds of machines running
in a single cluster with tens of thousands of containers on them and inside of those containers there
are hundreds of thousands of databases.
And so every time you create a new server and a new database within Azure sequel database you're causing
a brand new micros service to startup.
Now we might know this because it's got an endpoint.
And you're calling your cycle database using a U.R.L. while there's a single piece of code that is listening
for that and that's a service fabric state full micros service now why would you want to develop it
in this style.
I mean obviously Microsoft believes in it because a lot of the Azure and Microsoft big services use
it.
Well the benefits.
There's many of them obviously Mike since you're breaking up the code from large monolithic applications
into smaller ones you can break up the teams as well.
So instead of having a single team of twenty five developers you can have five teams of five developers
or 10 teams of two to three developers each.
The smaller the team the easier they are to manage.
They just have to coordinate with each other.
They don't have to sit and wait for the person across the hall to do their work before they can do their
work et cetera.
Smaller code is also easier to develop easier to test.
Less risk of anything crazy bugs developing once the code has been tested it can be deployed.
So the shorter development cycles because of smaller code there's less risk you can deploy something
you can pull it back you're not affecting all of the rest of the application.
And from the operational standpoint micros services can be scaled independently so if you've got a particular
micro service that needs more resources you can just cause another one to be created at another micro
service at another one.
And again it doesn't affect anyone else.
You don't have to duplicate servers and have access access code that doesn't need to be scaled when
only one piece of code needs to be scaled the opposite of the micro services style would be like the
monolithic style.
So that would be like you work in a company that has a single SLA and file for all of the app the major
application and there's dozens of CSR projects inside of it and within that CSR project is super dangerous
because you've got common libraries.
And so there's a particular section within your solution where if you change a line of code in there
then that causes all the other projects in that solution to be re compiled.
If it's recompile then the binary object changes and that binary object needs to be deployed so you
can have a single line of code that causes your entire application to be have to be deployed into development
into testing staging production etc..
And that this is a common joke or a common thing that a single change causes a bug that you would never
have expected.
Right so some bug in some far off way got triggered and you can't even justify how they're related but you're triggering it because you're always deploying things that don't need to be deployed.
So smaller teams are are better in this case.
Now when you look at ==Azure's implementation of micro services is called Azure service fabric service== fabric runs as a pool of servers or a cluster and all services can be deployed to various services servers as they're needed.
Now there's a there's a ==dense deployment model so you're not just having one program on one server you could have tens or hundreds of services deployed to each server.==
The idea is to start small and then grow to a massive scale with hundreds or even thousands of machines.
And so that scaling scaling style built into the service fabric design.
Now let's look at some examples of these individual services.
So we saw what Microsoft uses to run service fabric.
But when you're developing your own application how do you how are you going to break it up.
Well you're going to have a one application for the logging in logout one application for the user profile.
When application controls the shopping cart adding to the cart removing from the car checking out one
application has all the logging event handling and auditing and all that stuff.
When application deals with inventory management.
So this is a service oriented architecture done any micro scale.
Here's an example of a typical three tier application you've got the Web layer and that's a cluster
of servers and then over here you've got the business layer and that's another cluster of servers and
you might have even some database services that may or may not be running in a cluster that's eight
servers and three load balancers.
Right.
So all of these resources are being used.
What if the Web layer needs more resources.
It cannot borrow CPSU from the business layer.
Right.
So in the micro services style all of the services are packed densely.
And if you need to deploy on a scale something you can typically deploy it within the existing cluster
set and keep keep packing them in densely until you need another server.
And so what you had eight servers before could be only six servers now so you're saving money just on
reduced numbers of servers
now service fabric supports containers.
Like I said earlier containers are taking over Azure and taking over the world.
We've got containers and web apps.
We've got standalone containers like Cuban entities as your container instances.
And if you want to use the service fabric style but you also want to use containers that is supported
and so you look at a diagram like this it shows you Azure service fabric has a lot of features.
It does the orchestration health monitoring if any of the services fail it'll actually automatically
restart a new copy of it.
It does auto scaling there's built in dev ops so there's a lot of you know what this reminds me a lot
of like web apps but web apps are actually designed for that monolithic style whereas this is the web
apps for the micro services style.
Now the other thing that service fabric has that that not a lot of people might know about or are confused
about but those servers can run anywhere you can run those windows or linux machines on your own premises
and include them in an Azure service fabric you can run them in Azure vans of course you can run them
as a w s easy two instances so it doesn't matter where the servers are because service fabric does the
orchestration installs its agent onto those machines and the traffic can be sent across the Internet
a cross cloud providers etc..
So if you've ever wanted to run applications that spanned multiple cloud vendors and even your own data
centers service fabric would be one of the one of the ways that you can do that.
Now it does support said Windows or Linux options all of the usual dotting that is done in core Python
no J.S. all the container stuff java scripts angular or anything because it's containerized you can
install anything that has a runtime etc..
Ruby if you want the other thing about service fabric that is not true of Web Apps is that you can actually
develop them on your local machine and install a service fabric running locally.
And it's not emulated.
It's an actual service fabric environment running on your machine
getting.
Finally we get into the deployment aspects and again with like with web apps you've got all the pipelines
technology Jenkins all of those infrastructure and administration tools octopus and you know however
you want to get stuff into service fabric you can you can do it because it's it's very easy to deploy.
