All right.
I will say one thing I do love this deployment overview.
Being the new view.
So when you create a VM you create a storage account.
It takes you to the sort of status screen.
That's that's great Microsoft.
So let's go and create our secure storage account.
We're gonna go and do the virtual network endpoint configuration.
OK so we've got our brand new storage account it's hooked up to the the Resource Group.
If we go down into the firewalls and virtual networks in the settings table you can see that we created
this storage account with all networks.
We're going to want to now add a virtual network.
So I don't have any virtual networks on this count so I'm going to say add virtual network.
OK.
So is it a shady new net usual virtual network logic where you would create a address space.
I'm going to put this in my one to one resource group same location the south central U.S. default subnet
a don't really need a lot of address space.
So I'm just going to restrict that to dos protection basic storage firewall disabled and create.
So that's going to create a vignette that should be fairly quick.
Now you'll see also on this screen in terms of adding firewalls and virtual networks it also has this
concept of a IP firewall.
And so we can add IP ranges to allow only a white list IP addresses to access this.
So this is a great new feature as well.
So if I wanted to to basically instead of restricting it to a vignette if I was to delete this I could
then also just restrict it to my personal IP address or to the IP address of my company etc. allow trusted
Microsoft services to access this.
So this is going to be your virtual machines that need to create log files and things like that.
So basically you're allowing Microsoft's services to use your storage account around allow read access
to storage logging from any network and read access.
So this is if you are going to store stuff in the storage account for logging purposes you're going
to want to enable log analytics to get into the storage account.
Hey we're going to leave that turned off for now.
So I've added my virtual network.
I'm going to hit save and now even if I go so let's go back to the overview screen
I go into my blog LA blob account K if I was to create a new container.
So this is a test
then this storage account would basically go into properties.
This you are l will not be accessible from the public internet because we just turned on V Net access
right.
The firewall on virtual networks has to be a virtual there.
We just created it not from the public Internet.
So even if I had the keys this year I would be no good to me.
