So this video we're gonna talk about Azure storage explorer.
Now there's a few ways to get to this one is you can see that right off the overview of my storage account.
I can say open an explorer.
There's also storage Explorer here.
Finally there is a a Windows MacOS and Linux software that you can download different operating systems
different apps to run it as a native app on your on your desktop to manage the files inside your storage
account.
So if we go into the Web version we can see here that it is basically showing me my storage account
and I can go into blobs blob containers and I can see that I just created this container.
It's got no files in it from this storage explorer.
I can upload files and download files right.
I can make folders even though blobs don't have a proper folder structure.
I can see test folder.
It's a virtual folder.
It does not actually exist.
It's just built into the name of the blobs.
Right.
We understand that the containers are very flat structures.
There's a container name.
And then all the files inside of it.
If you do want to do a folder you basically have to give the folder and a name and then that becomes
part of the club's name.
Now in order to so this is test test folder so let's upload a file into here.
So I'm going to click the upload button.
I'm going to choose a file.
I'm going to choose my PNC file
and you'll see here that it's chosen to do it as a block blob it has various blob sizes.
We can't we don't really have to worry about this you know black blobs are files such as images and
videos that are just designed to be read as incomplete files.
Page blobs are like virtual hard disk where you can access individual pages within the blob.
And you don't have to access the entire file in order to change it.
You just access parts of the file.
That's the big distinction.
A pen blobs are more like log files and things that you just need to append to but you don't need dynamic
access to other parts of it.
So let's just upload it as a black blob leave the defaults and it's going to try this to megabyte upload
checkmark.
Everything is existing I can close this and now I can see the file exists inside my storage account
as a hot hot axis one cool thing about this web browsers I can right click on it and I can actually
see that I can download it I can copy it paste it changed it from hot to cold get a link to it that
I can then share etc..
Ok so let's copy this.
I'm going to
call it just folder
and if I right click and see paste I've now copied a file from the parent directory to a child directory
so that's how you use Azure storage explorer again we can do this on our desktop.
We can do this within the browser.
We can write applications hopefully to access our storage accounts.
