So in this video, we're going to deploy an armed template to create storage accounts, the what's unique
about this armed template is it uses the copy function to create multiple storage accounts.
And so in this case, we're going to pass in a default value of four.
And so this single arm template should deploy for storage accounts.
So I have my template here.
I'm going to go into my Azure account and I'm going to go into the ARM Templates Service.
Now, I have a bunch of templates here, but I'm going to add a new template.
I'm going to call this creates storages.
Using copy function.
I guess it requires a no spaces.
And now I can copy my arm template and paste it right into the interface here.
So I'll copy it from my text editor and paste it now, you can see here again, it's creating storage
accounts.
It's using this KOPI index function, which is basically a counter for each copy that's going to create
up to four copies.
It'll go zero one to three.
And it's taken care of by Azure.
The name of the storage account has the index, has the word storage and then gets a resource group
I.D. And that's what's creating the name, the unique name of the storage account.
So I'm going to say, OK.
Right, and I can say ad so now successfully saved, I have to refresh that I can go in here and now
let's deploy.
This creates storage as a template.
I do have to say I'm going to call this new storage creative resource group.
Remember, the idea of this is going to go into the name of the storage accounts location.
You'll see that there was a parameter that has a default and I'm going to agree to creating it and say
purchase.
And so now it's taking that template that we pasted.
And it is hopefully going to deploy the the storage accounts to this new storage resource group.
So let's just give it a minute to do that.
I can watch the deployment underway and we can see that it's it's the copy index is actually zero one,
two, three.
So to zero based index.
Well, the deployment succeeded fairly quickly, actually.
I can actually go to the resource group and using that simple arm template was able to create four storage
accounts that all have unique names, again, taken from the ID of the resource group.
So all pretty cool stuff.
