Now, one of the advantages of using Azure Active Directory as your identity provider is it does have
the ability to synchronize with your on premises active directory.
And so this is called a connect.
You can see it right on the overview screen here for the tenant.
I can scroll down to a disconnect or I can even just click on this box here.
And this is where we're going to be able to download the application that will run inside of our network
and synchronize our on premises.
Ad with Azure ad.
Now, using the software, you can choose to synchronize all users in your on premade or to filter them
based on certain traits.
So let's say you only know that certain people with the right group in your unpermitted is going to
have access to applications running an azure so you can only filter out those users to synchronize into
on Prem.
Now, I don't have an ad running that I can synchronize with, and so there's really no point to me
downloading this and trying to set this up for you.
But if you do, this is where you would go and download that software.
Now, there are maybe three or four things that I need to tell you about.
This one is you are also able to enable this single sign on here as well.
This is what's going to allow your users who are already logged into ads to use other applications without
having to provide their password again.
So once the synchronization is done, of course, the password is going to be stored inside of the azhari.
But with the seamless Sinon, that ability to even bypass providing a password is there passed through.
Authentication is really the concept of your on Prem and always doing the authentication.
So it's not like your Azure ad is storing the credentials and doesn't require the on prem ID with passthrough.
You're actually going in and checking with the on prem and every time somebody tries to authenticate.
So the ad is the middleman, the Azure ads, the middleman and the backend ads.
What's actually doing the authentication?
I wouldn't necessarily suggest this unless you absolutely need it with synchronization.
You're always going to have the latest status of the individual within a few minutes lag in the cloud.
So if the person was let go from the organization, it's only going to be 10 or 15 minutes before all
of their Azure ads are shut down.
If that's not good enough for times like for you, then you may have to rely on this pass through authentication.
The health of this connection is very important from a security perspective.
You can imagine if you're a connection, synchronization was broken or stopped working.
Let's say you went two weeks without successfully running.
That could be a security hole.
You would have people who were disabled in your unpermitted and that information never got synchronized
to the cloud.
And so having Azure ad connect health that is able to let you know, alerts you, send you an SMS or
an email to tell you that something's not working.
And finally, we're talking about a password reset earlier.
Password reset is where you would do you're on premises integration.
And so, like I said, if you do end up allowing users to modify their passwords, you probably want
them to push that modification back to your on Prem.
So this has to be set up within the password reset on premise integration.
So to summarize, a disconnect is critical for single sign on as a feature to allow your users to reuse
their corporate identities for the applications you develop for the cloud.
And you can basically have those passwords synchronized to the cloud or use pass through authentication
so that the on prem, it is always involved in the authentication.
