So in this section, where are we talking about virtual machines now, virtual machines is one of the
three pillars of cloud computing infrastructure as a service.
You've got virtual machines, you have storage and you have networking.
So we're going to talk about virtual machines.
Now, as the name implies, a virtual machine is a computer, a server that looks and acts and behaves,
for all intents and purposes, like a real machine.
It would be very difficult for you if I was to remote desktop into an azure virtual machine for you
to determine whether this is a real computer running in a server room near you or whether it's a cloud
based computer.
There are subtle differences, but for the most part, you can basically you can install this anything
you want in the virtual machine, you remote into it using either RTP for Windows or DSH for Linux.
And it's a server.
It's a Windows machine.
You can install software, set things up.
It looks and acts like a real computer.
Now, the benefits, of course, we talked about this earlier are that you can get this machine for
only as long as you need it.
So if you need a machine for 20 minutes, you can create it, use it for 20 minutes, shut it down.
You're only charged pennies for that virtual machine during that period.
Now, you can't just arbitrarily create any combination of CPU memory and storage availability that
you want.
Azure provides just over 120 different configurations that you can choose from.
These are called instant sizes.
Now, not every region of the world contains every instant size.
And so if there's new instant sizes that get released, sometimes they come out the V2 of things or
more powerful machines.
You might have to go to specific regions of the world for that.
That hundred and twenty plus virtual machine sizes get categorized into what are called instance types.
And so in this video, we're going to review the different instance types.
The first one we'll talk about is the most common.
It's called a general purpose instance.
Now, as the name implies, it's basically a balanced computer.
It's got a an even distribution between CPU strength and onboard memory.
It's good for development, is good for testing.
If you've got a medium or low traffic web server or a very basic database server, something that doesn't
have very strong needs.
And one of the categories, this could be a very good generalized computer.
There are five different instance types, instant sizes within Azure.
There's the B series and the D series, the S A and even DC.
Now, these are you're not going to be expected to memorize these labels.
It's not going to be on the test in terms of knowing.
But things like BD and A are so generalized, so common that you should understand this the relative
strengths between them.
Right.
The the B series is the least expensive of the options.
It's called BASTABLE computing.
Very interesting that it runs in a low performance, low power mode.
And then when you need it, it will burst up to 100 percent of the performance.
And so it runs in a variable mode for speed.
The A series are low powered servers and the D series are even higher powered servers and these things
are priced accordingly, too.
So when you go into the screen, which will do in the next video, you're going to see a relative difference
between the price of B series, A series and D series.
But these live you see these labels, then you know that this is a general purpose computer that is
designed to be fairly even between the the different elements of CPU and memory.
Now, this is opposed to what's called a compute optimized type.
This means that the CPU has a high CPU, but not as high a memory.
Now, you could save some money as opposed to trying to get a balanced computer that is high on both
CPU and memory.
If you have applications that are batch computing application servers, something where the CPU, speed
and CPU, the number, of course, is important, then the compute optimized might be the best solution
for you.
This is the F series.
It's F for S within Azure.
That means compute optimized.
Now on the other side, you got the memory optimized.
So this is where the memory is high, but the CPU is not necessarily high.
Again, there's a lot of letters relating to this, the E series, M series, the G series, there are
some elements of the D series which we talked about in the general purpose, which is also to be considered
as memory optimized.
So whereas D series is generally general-purpose at the upper levels, it gets to a memory optimized
server.
This is good for database servers, caching servers, if you use redit any type of analytics that does
a lot of work in memory.
So memory optimized servers are good when you need lots of memory, but the CPU isn't as important.
Finally, there's also storage optimized.
Now we haven't talked about storage till now, memory, including the two features.
But if you really have intensive iota's on the local disk for that machine, high disk throughput,
high Io's per second, then this might be the one for you.
This could be for database servers, data warehousing, large scale servers, things like that.
This might be where storage speed is the overwhelming factor that you're concerned with.
That's the ALS series.
Now, the S in all of these types usually stands for SSD, right?
The solid state drives less a faster type of storage.
Solid-State is a lot lower latency than a typical spinning disk.
So there's only Solid-State option for the storage optimized.
Fifth up is the GPU series.
Now sometimes you have modeling, you know, you're doing intense machine learning and other things
where there's a lot of GPU functions, maybe even a bitcoin mining or running block chain functions.
So the GPU series is really provides graphic processing, video editing, video rendering, things like
that.
That is the end series.
So if you see the letter and in the front of the name that tells you it's a GPU server there, they
break it out into whether it's computer optimized or memory optimized, plus the GPU.
So and B and C and finally, the last type of compute is called High-Performance Compute.
And this is really for those instances where you have you really need a massive computer.
These are going to be expensive on your default account.
You're not going to even reserve these without getting Microsoft to prove your account.
It's going to be limited to the regions of the world.
But it's the H series.
So the H series has not only high throughput everything, it's on a special fast network.
Great.
The RDM Network, which is not what most virtual machines are on.
So those are overview of virtual machines, what it's good for.
Coming up in the next video, we're going to go and start creating one.
So let's get into the Azure portal and create a virtual machine.
