All right.
So our virtual machine was created in four minutes thirty five seconds.
I really did like this deployment screen here it tells you everything that you need to know all the
resources that were created so we can just go to the resource to see it.
Now the auto shut down time has passed and so I'm going to have to start it up again in order to be
able to do anything with it.
But we can see here that we have a virtual machine in our resource group running in Central U.S..
It is a Windows machine running on our B one m s instance which is a fairly cheap instance that's not
going to cost us too much if we leave it running by mistake.
We set up the taking the taking was automatically applied and we can see some basic stuff here.
Now before we get into I want to talk about availability as one of the major topics of this test.
But just to remind you that by clicking on the connect link here for the virtual machine we get two
options for either RTP or SS each to connect to the machine.
This is a Windows machine.
So we're going to connect using our DP.
Remember we allowed the
we allowed the R D port number 3 3 8 9 to be public.
And so where that should be OK.
Now this is choosing a private IP address.
That's not certainly going to be helpful for us from kind of thing from our personal computers.
But yeah SSA also is available for connecting.
So if we ever want to connect to this we can do that the public IP address is here so this case is 160
sixty one we can already p into that and we should be able to we should go see that.
Let's do that.
Simpler certificate
and this machine is fairly low powered remember we're dealing with a B one m s machine.
And so everything's gonna be a lot slower but we can see we've been able to connect or in a Windows
remote desktop session to that IP address and Windows is now setting our desktop up for the first time
usage.
So we were able to successfully connect to this machine from our home computers.
That means that Pt. 3 3 8 9 is open through the firewall.
If we were not able to connect to it we would have to look at two or three different places to see where
the connection is failing.
I'm not going to allow network sharing etc. So we have successfully been able to log into this machine
let's let's stop this now and what we're gonna do is we're going to talk about high availability next.
