So in this lesson we're going to talk about the availability options for virtual machines in Azure.
Now we remember we were creating the Virtual Machine a couple of videos ago and we got to the choice
of region and then we went into this dropdown that says availability options for most regions as a time
of recording for most regions.
The only option for availability we have at the setup is an availability set now an availability set
is you indicating to Azure that this virtual machine will be part of a group.
You have to give the group a name so we'll call it MCCALL It is Ed Vale and basically at the time of
creation you're going to basically identify this group.
This machine is part of this group.
Now Microsoft is going to distribute these virtual machines across multiple hardware servers and across
multiple servers in Iraq in order to provide you two benefits one of them.
It's you'll see here on screen called fault domains and a fault domain is a physical unexpected point
of failure within the Azure network.
And so if you have two virtual machines let's say the scenario is you have two virtual machines not
in an availability set and by some chance you both of those virtual machines are running on the same
physical computer within Azure.
Something happens to that computer.
The hardware fails the power supply dies and both of your virtual machines would go down because that
computer has been cut the power has been cut or the networks been cut.
So if you have your machines across two or more fault domains that means that you're virtual machines
will be distributed across different physical sets of hardware.
And that reduces the likelihood of a power supply failure or a small network failure affecting all your
virtual machines.
So you'll see here we have the choke the option between one and three fault domains.
And so all of the virtual machines we've put into this availability set will be distributed at least
to physical machines in order that they be physically separated for any potential physical Hargrove
failure affecting each other.
The other benefit is what's called an update to me now update domain is much more flexible.
You've got between 1 and 20 optical means.
And what that allows you to do is basically schedule rollouts of windows and Azure fixes.
And so let's say Microsoft was to deploy a brand new version of Microsoft Azure as underlying software.
They're going to go and deploy this in 20 segments.
OK.
Between 1 and 20 they're going to do this one at a time so that no two segments are being affected by
this rolling update at the same time.
So these machines can be rebooted for software updates and for patches.
But it's going to if you distribute your machines across different update domains then those patches
will only affect a small subnet subset of your machines.
All right.
So we're going to use availability sets in this instance.
So that are multiple virtual machines will be distributed across two or more fault domains and across
10 update domains that I'm going to cancel that out because the other type of availability option that
is relatively new is called the availability zone.
You'll see here that I don't have this option available to me.
There's only a handful of data centers in the world that are regions in the world that have this central
U.S. as one I believe France is another but basically if you choose central U.S. you get a second option
which is availability zone.
The cool thing about availability zone is that Microsoft has basically given us the ability to deploy
our virtual machines into specific data centers within this region.
So if you think of the central U.S. region there are at least three physical buildings that contain
servers and we can deploy our virtual machine to building one building two or building three.
And by separating these out by buildings you're basically even more likelihood that if something was
to happen to one that is not going to affect the others.
And so you can deploy a virtual machine to building one another virtual machine to building to another
visual seem to work building three and then you know there are some physical separation if there's a
fire that breaks out or some kind of power outage or flooding that these things are somewhat separated
out geographically not as much as an entire regions worth but there's at least a few miles of between
them.
OK.
The one thing I should point out is that availability sets and availability zones don't provide load
balancing.
So if you deploy multiple virtual machines into a single availability set or across three different
availability zones you are not getting little balancing with that you're going to have to deploy a little
balancer in order to have for traffic to be evenly distributed.
OK but anyways this type of setup Microsoft talks about what's called service level agreements.
And so the setup of having your virtual machines setup in the availability set and an availability zone
actually increases your chance so let's go into the SLA for virtual machines.
If you use our full assert with any single virtual machine okay.
Using premium storage has internet connectivity of three nines ninety nine point nine percent of the
time.
That's actually that's actually pretty good but still leaves a lot of room for downtime.
Okay.
If you were to use the availability set which we just talked about then you've used up your your availability
to three and a half nines OK ninety nine point nine five percent of the time.
That's that's still pretty good.
But of course that's not quite 100 and if you're using availability zones that Microsoft guaranteeing
that ninety nine point ninety nine percent of the time you're going to have Internet availability.
Right.
So looking at this chart and Wikipedia the three nines.
That is for a single virtual machine is about 40 minutes a month of downtime that's allowed within that
contract.
When we get up to three and a half nines that goes down to 20 minutes it's still a bit that's availability
set.
And if we start using availability zones we bring that 40 minutes down to four minutes.
So that's quite a significant amount of guaranteed downtime maximum downtime per month.
Now this is a financial guarantee and not an absolute promise that will never happen.
But you can see the difference between three nines and four nights.
