Now another type of compute resource is called the Virtual Machine the scale set.
So if I look for VM s s hopefully Microsoft is smart and it is virtual machine skill set.
Now virtual machine skill sets allow us to create virtual machines that are scalable from one to 100
or even a thousand virtual machines in a single scale set.
So you'll give the entire skill set a name so VM SS is set one we choose the operating system system
disk image for all machines running within the skill set.
I can obviously choose my subscription which Resource Group which location I do have the availability
option.
Now virtual machine skill set are gonna be deployed into a type of availability set by default.
But if we wanted to we could deploy that into a specific availability zone.
So if I switch over to central U.S. I can then choose to deploy my scale sets into only two of the three
zones or again because it uses availability sets.
It'll do all three zones by default.
So let's go back to Eastern U.S..
We have to create username and passwords obviously for all the machines in the set and the real fun
is when we talk about instances.
So now we're creating multiple virtual machines at once.
In this case it can be two instances but it could also be one hundred or five hundred or seven hundred.
However many virtual machines that we we are going to need for our purposes.
We can choose the instant size.
And now Microsoft has only certain instance types that are in this options and see a scroll down here
all the d the h is there's my b if I wanted to do this for testing purposes I can create virtual machine
skill set of B one m s
and basically we can setup scaling rules.
OK so let's say we want as we know that for this application we're gonna have between two and 10 virtual
machines.
OK.
We already said that the initial instance count is five.
So our minimum is to our maximum is 10 and we can set up the scaling rules such that when the CPSU reaches
seventy five percent it's going to add one additional VM.
So in the case where it started off it's five we add one it's going to become six and when the CPSU
goes below a certain threshold let's make it 15 percent.
It's going to start to take away virtual machines to a minimum of two.
So we might deploy with five and if we don't use those beams it's gonna go to four and then it's gonna
go to three and then it's going to go to two and that's where it's going stop.
OK.
So virtualizing skill sets have the option of scaling built in
so the the the skill set of course is going to need to be low balanced.
It's going to come with either an application Gateway which handles
any kind of traffic HP a CPS web soft get stuck in traffic it can do things like look at the U are L
coming in and deploy basically redirect the traffic to specific VMS based on the contents of the url.
So maybe you have one server that serves the images directory another server serves the video directory
and a third server serves everything else.
You can have sort of rules with an application gateway a little bouncers a fairly dumb device it basically
just make some decisions to you know send your traffic to a random server or in round robin order etc.
It doesn't inspect the traffic it doesn't expect it to be a sure to be traffic or you can deploy with
no load bouncing.
Again we can choose a little bouncers can have a public IP address domain name label we have to put
this on to a virtual network which we can because we're an a string yes we can put this in a brand new
network etc..
And do we want every instance in the 10 let's say there's 10 instances for this VM SS do we want every
instance to have a public IP address in generally you're going to want no because you're going to basically
it's going to cost you money to have public IP addresses and when you've got hundreds of machines and
you're not not actually expecting to be able to access the individual machine from the outside because
there's a load balancer in front of it then it's probably smart not to do that.
So that's a virtual machine skill set very similar to VM but you're basically creating multiple VMS
at once and they all cause a low bouncer and they all act in concert.
They can scale up a scaled down based on this type of CPE threshold etc..
