So in this section of the course we're going to talking about Azure web apps and Azure apps services.
Now apps services are sort of an in-between service between having complete control of your environment
which you do with virtual machines.
So with a virtual machine you can upload your executable as into an Azure Virtual Machine install it
however you like and have complete control of your environment as opposed to the server list technologies
like logic apps and function apps where you upload your code.
But Microsoft Azure is entirely responsible for how it runs it.
Now you can set up in the Settings section how you want it to run it but you have no control over the
underlying server.
The in-between of that is called Azure apps services.
This is Microsoft's platform as a service model.
Now an apps service is a way that you can create code package it up into a zip file or some packaged
service and upload that into Azure.
Let's create our first apps service.
If I can go into the ad resources section and find web apps or I can do it right off the menu in terms
of app services I'm going to create a web app.
Now it used to be a few years ago that there was a difference between web apps and API apps and mobile
apps.
But in these times with Azure Resource Manager model all app services are web apps.
And whether it's an API app or a mobile app they all have access to the same underlying functionality
so we create a web app.
First thing we need to do is we need to give it a name.
Now notice that has the DOT Azure Web sites dot net extension which means this is a fully qualified
name that has to be unique across all of Azure.
So I tend to give these names with my initials.
So is it a shady.
And then you have that my subscription is a pay as you go.
Now you might be your you might be running off the free plan or you have an MSD and subscription or
your company has an enterprise plan or other model minus a page you go subscription as usual.
I'm going to create a branding Resource Group for my app just so that it makes it easy to track it track
the costs and also to delete it and set permissions and things like that.
Now right away we're given the choice between a Windows app and a Linux app.
Now the choices here are that on a on a Windows app obviously we have a choice to include application
insights on a Linux app.
Our choice then becomes running in HP for both.
We can choose to upload the code in a package format or to run it as a Docker image which is basically
a container running inside Windows or Linux.
So I'm going to create this as a Windows app that's running code.
That means that I have to upload code in order for this to to operate.
Now the most important decision that we're making here besides operating system and then the type of
the type of image is the app service plan an app service plan is like a hosting plan now believe it
or not Microsoft does have a free plan.
They also have a number of paid plans and we're going to review that very briefly.
So I'm going to call this new plan
to give it a number so unique.
I get to choose which location this runs in.
So within an app service plan you get all of Microsoft's fifty five plus regions.
Now as usual you don't get access to all 55 because some of them are government and Department of Defense
and other restrictions of China.
So I don't run this in Canada.
Let's look at the pricing
so we've got basically three major options here at the top between dev test production and isolated
the dev test option has a free model F one.
Now you do not get very many options with this.
In fact there is nothing listed in terms of the benefits if we go up to the D plan that does cost us
here at fourteen dollars Canadian per month and we are running on a shared infrastructure so our apps
are running alongside other apps or only given a gigabyte of memory and it's calculated in terms of
the minutes per day.
So we get a two hundred and forty minutes per day which is four hours a day of C.P. time.
Now on the on the shared plan we can set the domain name different than what we created.
So you remember I created the A-Z SJP new web app domain dot Azure websites dot net for and under the
free point that's your only option.
But as soon as you get to a shared model DB plan you can you can basically set up your own domain name
and redirect it moving up to the B series.
That's basic pricing tier you can not only have a custom domain but it supports each.
P.S. You also can scale.
So the concept of scaling we're going to talk about in a video very shortly but this is a manual scaling.
So you are making the conscious decision to log in and to upgrade to a second or third instance for
your application if you're to have performance issues.
Now this is the first plan in which we can see you get this Azure compute units so the B1 plan is listed
as one hundred total Azure compute units.
When Microsoft lists these numbers it's basically a number that's used to compare plans relatively to
each other.
So we want to set to a one hundred eighty two is set to two hundred.
You can expect the B to Plan to be twice as fast as the B one plane.
They're not going to tell you exactly the speed or the number C cycles etc. But on a relative basis
B2 runs executions twice as fast as being one b 2 gives you double the memory as well and double the
price so B one is running a seventy nine dollars a month to get to one hundred and fifty dollars a month
and B three double stacks of three hundred fourteen can double the memory double the performance.
Also notice they listing it as an a series equivalent so it may or may not be running on an E series
in says behind the scenes but is this is effectively a series.
For the purposes of setting up our website now Microsoft does not demand does not suggest that these
are good for production workloads.
Again we don't have any sort of auto scaling.
There's no backups here.
When we get into the production we'll see the benefits of running production workloads now.
The S1 series has an equivalent AC due to the B one series you get the same run a memory.
It is also running on an E series but the price jumps to one hundred and four dollars a month but when
we look at the features we can see that includes auto scaling and include staging slots which we'll
talk about later as well backups a load balancing technology that crosses regions.
So that would be sort of the first series that Microsoft recommends for production workload.
What they really want you to do is to get into the premium series.
Now we're starting to get into the two hundred dollars a month ranges.
Now you'll notice it goes from being an a series equivalent to a D version to series equivalent there
were quite the features are pretty much the same as the as the S1 plan but now we're Tupperware basically
doubling the memory and doubling the performance.
The number of backups per day.
The number stage of slots goes up the number of backups per day goes up as well.
So in the amount of instances it can support to keep in mind that for every time you scale any instance
you are basically adding to the cost.
So although this could be two hundred dollars a month on the S2 plan if you have two excess of that
over four hundred dollars a month.
So there's a pricing caveat that they don't really call out here but basically web apps have these types
of plans.
And the difference between standard and premium has to do with the amount of instances and staging slots
and backups.
Finally we get into the isolated model and we can see that basically Microsoft is really ratcheting
up the price here so now we're getting up to two hundred and eighty dollars a month minimum.
But there is an asterix here actually if we don't see it on this page.
But the isolated model has a minimum cost that is separate from the instance cost.
So you're actually paying a thousand dollars a month plus 300 dollars a month for for this.
OK but hopefully you would use more than one instance and then that thousand would not you be pay again.
So isolated the pricing on the screens a little bit misleading I would not choose it unless you really
needed isolated hardware.
That is basically so single tenant systems.
So you know that your apps are the only apps running on that hardware it's running on its own network
including your own set up a virtual network.
All the private access is etc. So for real production instances that really need to be running on their
own that isolated network exists.
I'm going to create this app on a let's call this D1 series shared infrastructure.
It's not a reasonably priced model and it's good enough for our purposes we'll show you how to scale
up to get to the what the models where you can actually do manual scaling in a positive video and in
the next video we're going to complete the creation of the website.
