So we've chosen the D1 series running in Canada are going to quit okay and so what we have here is a
web app running on Windows where we're going to expect you expected to upload code and it'll be running
in Canada.
E on a shared plan which is 14 dollars a month I'm going to click Create.
This is going to take a minute or two to create.
So pause the video and come back so that was very quick.
Let's look up to the Resource Group.
Remember resource groups as how Azure organizes its resources.
We have the app service itself and the app service plan that we created.
Remember we look at the deployments that we created.
It can actually tell us to scroll here a little bit it actually told us that it took only 40 seconds
to create.
So that's a pretty amazing to get.
And we're about ready to go in 40 seconds.
Now we're in the web app now we can see here that there is a euro that we created.
Well Microsoft does have a web page ready to respond just to say your app service is up and running
so we can tell that our app service is actually responding on the URL that we created.
Now we also see that the app is actually running in an app service plan which is listed as shared small
which is the D1 plan.
Now we wanted to start to take advantage of things like scaling.
We can go into the app service plan and see scale up and by scaling up we can choose a higher or lower
app service plan for instance the B one plan allows us to have manually scale up to three instances
and even though this is still running as a tenant it's not the same as the shared infrastructure which
limits the amount of time per day.
We are a full tenant within whatever hardware This is on.
So it's very easy to switch or even if we wanted to switch to to production workload you could go to
that tab and choose and choose to switch to that so we're gonna let that run it should take only a few
seconds.
So just like that we're upgraded to the B one small app service for our web app.
Now this Web service this app service plan actually can host more than one web app.
So another key element of Web Apps is that you can have multiple web apps hosting computing different
Web sites and API is running on the same apps service plan switching over to the Azure docs Web site.
We can see that for app service plans.
We have a 10 app limit on the free plan.
A hundred app limit on the shared plan.
And as soon as you get up to the basic plan you can have an unlimited number of web apps running on
the same app service plan.
Now do keep in mind that you are limited in terms of disk space so you can only upload as much as you
can in terms of that disc space and you're also limited in terms of memory and you know the CPO being
allocated to that.
So some as are your apps are not taking over and not requiring a lot of sleep.
Intensive usage you can have a lot of apps running under the same plan and even on the freight plan
now as far as being able to upload code into web apps you have a lot of options right off this home
page.
Here we can see that there is an FTB server and FERPA server and also a log and a way to log in to that
in order to upload code.
So if you have a deployment system that can support ATP then that is obviously one way to do that.
Another way to do that is go into the quick start here.
Another way to do that is to switch over to the deployment center is to use Azure as new repos which
is part of Azure DAB services Azure is Microsoft purchase get hub.
And so there's get hub integration.
So in a case like this when you push code into you could have a repository even a private repository
then that triggers a push into the Azure web app.
So basically it's a continuous deployment situation.
When you hook up this into GitHub with repos you do have some ways of doing some automation some cool
things like that.
You see it supports other things such as bit bucket get file systems like one drive in Dropbox everything
we talked about that there is an FTC setting and there's also public get in your curio which uses a
different system than the hub integration.
OK.
So tons of options in terms of getting your code into into an Azure web app now in conjunction with
that having deployment slots would be useful for something like this.
So you could have a staging slot right now.
The basic plan that I'm on does not support deployment slots but if I was on the standard plan I could
have the production slot which only I can deploy to.
And then the staging or testing slot which is continuous deployment with one of these sources.
And so you can test your web app from a testing location that is different than your production all
automatically handled by Azure.
There's a process called swapping where you can when you're ready to go live your production becomes
your testing your testing becomes production etc. So Azure web apps are basically designed for this
kind of continuous integration continuous deployment system which is pretty cool when you set up your
applications to automatically push as soon as code is committed to positively.
