So in this video we're gonna talk about Web jobs.
Now we're back looking at our Azure web app.
That was a Windows app that had co deployments to it and we know what a web app is at this point.
Right.
It is a Web site that we've coded uploaded into Azure.
It has an addressable you are L that is publicly available and we're basically able to deploy code and
call code on demand but the thing with web apps are is that they're not continuously run somebody does
have to go to this your url to get the code to run.
What do you do when you have something that needs to run on occasion or it needs to run continuously
relating to your Web site.
Let's say you have what is called a web job.
So in traditional coding you would have created an app and would have installed it as a windows service
within your web server or set it up as a cron job or some other way for having Coto occasionally run.
So let's go into our our web app here and we're gonna go down to the setting underneath settings that
says a web.
Jobs so web jobs as it says provides an easy way to run scripts as background processes and it runs
in the same context as your web app so you do have a way of uploading code into Azure and you can set
that to run however whoever you wish.
Right so let's give this web job a name.
Is it a shady Web job.
You do have to choose some type of files upload it that contains the code could be a power shell script
could be an executable and we choose whether the code just runs continuously or something happens to
trigger and it likely is a schedule that's going to cron basically a cron job will trigger this on a
every five minutes every hour every day basis you set up your schedules and chronic expression or looking
at windows web service with a windows service you can set it up just to continually run in to expect
that it runs continuously.
Now one question that does come up is when you do scale this web job what's a web app.
Let's say you have two or three or more instances of this web app.
Do you want two or three or more instances of those Web jobs.
So for things that are you know cleaning up directories doing stuff it's a patch process.
Maybe you only want one instance of it running.
You don't these things are not designed to handle multiple instances of that code.
So perhaps a single instance running in a continuous fashion is the method that you want so we can see
here according to the docs that the following file types are supported.
So we've got scripts like CMC files and fat files compiled executable power show bash P2P Python no
J.S. in Java Java as jar files.
So essentially if you can get code into one of these executable formats you can upload that using a
web job and can set it up to either run continuously or to run on a schedule so one note that that I
should point out here is that web app can time out after 20 minutes of an activity.
So if you're that's one of the reasons why having this type of code running in a web app is not always
great because obviously if no one's visiting your Web site then that code will never run.
