So in this video we're going to create a web app and deploy some code from github.
Now we'll say there is a script on the Microsoft docs site and I'm going to basically use this as a
basis for my own script by Google into my text editor here.
We can see that I've basically copied the script and I've modified it.
Now I've chosen a github repository to deploy and it's a each team LCROSS javascript site.
So there's nothing complicated about it.
It's a pure bootstrapped site and we're going to deploy that to the Azure app service.
OK.
So pretty straightforward.
Now we're going to establish here.
I've got I've got my powerful six I'm using the A-Z module.
I've connected to Azure so my my power show is connected to my Azure account so let's set up a couple
of variables.
The first one we can set up is a link to the GitHub repo.
And so this is a web e Himmel repo you can choose your own repo you can use any of the other Azure samples.
This is pretty straightforward.
So that's the repo we're going to use and we'll take advantage of a randomization function that will
get us a web app.
So my web app with some type of a random element that way our web app will guarantee to be unique across
the universe of Web Apps pretty much right.
And I've decided to deploy these two Eastern U.S..
So I'm going to set up the East U.S. variable.
Now these are all setting of variables we're not actually done anything yet as we normally do.
Let's start by creating a resource group.
OK so the new dash a Z resource group giving it a name and telling it which location which will be our
E U.S. location.
So I'm going to hit enter to that and that's pretty quick see it's created us a resource group in East
U.S. just like we asked.
Now there's two components to creating a an app service.
One of course is the app service plan.
Either you're using an app store is playing or an app service environment.
This is the app service plan and we've chosen the free tier you can say that the dash tier equals free
and we're putting that in our resource group in our location with the name that we've assigned it.
So this will take a moment to create us a new app service plan in the free tier.
And really this was less than 10 seconds so we've got ourselves a status as ready.
So we got ourselves an app service plan and the provisioning succeeded.
Now the.
That's not the web app that's just the that's just the hosting element of it.
So next we want to create the web app itself.
So I'm going to say new hyphen a z web app we'll use the same name as the we've defined location.
We're going to use the app service plan which happens to have the same name as our web app and it's
going to be in our Resource Group.
So this is going to establish us an empty spot which we can deploy code
love these progress bars allows us to see how far along it is.
So now it has created us a web app and lot more information there but we can see that it's my web app
1 8 0 2 9 4 5 2 0 3 the Azure Web site starting.
OK.
So that's all pretty good now.
Right now that web apps is pretty empty actually.
If we go to grab the URL if we open up a new web browser
I'm going to try to drag it in here.
We can see that the web app is just returning us.
Your app services up and running.
So it's completely empty.
This is the default look of an app with no code in it.
Now what we said we wanted to do was we wanted to deploy this.
This sample site from GitHub.
Now we did set up the get hub get repo per variable here up top.
So what we're going to want to do is we're going to want to set a property here so I'm going to just
there's another variable called properties object which is a Jason array an object which contains our
get repo which contains are the master branch of that repo and I'm just going to set that property
and now's the sort of the bit that does the work that does the deployment right.
So the set hyphen as a resource is going to assign this property to this resource web apps name slash
web.
OK so if I do this we're expecting a deployment to be setup.
So we'll give that a second to do that.
All right.
So the set hyphen a Z resource command has now associated this GitHub repository with our web app.
And if we now go to that web browser to the URL that we created we can now see this is a pretty straightforward
HMO javascript CSA site doesn't have obviously much to it but it's just an each team site.
So our deployment using get hub has worked.
Now this is a one time deployment.
This is not the same as continuous integration.
So if I was to update this GitHub repository we would not expect the Web site to be updated.
Continuous Integration.
There is a completely different script for it.
If I pull it into a frame here it actually involves getting a token from get hub in order to do more
than an integration and then even though we're still using the properties object we're passing the token
to to authenticate and then the get hub can basically push whenever there's a completion or a check
in it can actually do a push to Azure to get that to redeploy.
