 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clubbers and welcome to this lecture in this lecture we're going to look at how we can automate 
 this using cloud formations. 
 So this is the lab and you will need to log into the AWOL console. 
 Okay so I mean the AWOL console cloud formation comes under management and governments and it's in here. 
 So go ahead and click on cloud formation. 
 Now we've never used cloud formation before. 
 So what we want to do is go ahead and create a stack. 
 We're actually going to use a sample stack. 
 And if we click in here we can do a WordPress blog and you can actually go and view or edit the stack 
 in the template designer. 
 It's completely beyond the scope of this course to teach your cloud formation. 
 You don't really need to know it at all for your exam you just need to know what it is essentially. 
 However if you want to work as a solutions architect in the real world you need to know cloud formation 
 inside out. 
 So we do have some deep dive courses on cloud formation on the cloud guru platform. 
 Here you can either upload your own template to S3 or you could specify and basically you are L where 
 you've already got a template of in S3. 
 We're not going to do that we're just going to use their standard template. 
 Go ahead and hit next. 
 And here we're going to get to our stack names we're going to call it my wordpress blog something like 
 that db name a cloud guru DB password a cloud guru DB root password a cloud guru db user a cloud guru. 
 So I'm just gonna fill in a whole career for pretty much anything in here. 
 This is the key name so this is the name of existing easy to key pair. 
 So I'm going to use my Irish key power which have already got and this is just allows us to enter in 
 where where we can access each end. 
 So we're going to leave it open to the world and to go ahead and head next. 
 And here we've got our options so we can add some tags so we could say name My Word Press Club formation 
 template down here our I am wrong we don't actually need to add a role and down here our rollback triggers 
 we can just leave that as is rollback triggers basically enable you to have a confirmation monitor the 
 state of your application during the stack creation and then they will roll back that operation if the 
 application breaches a threshold for any alarm that we specify where we need to do that is go ahead 
 and just head next and then it will give us a review of our stack and all we need to do now is go ahead 
 and hit create. 
 Now this can take some time you'll see all your events down here. 
 Basically this is going to go through and provision our WordPress site on an easy to instance I think 
 it might create an idea so instance I'm not actually sure we'll have to see what happens but we'll be 
 able to go in and see all these assets once this cloud formation template has finished provisioning 
 so I'm just going to pause the video and wait for this stack to come up online. 
 Okay. 
 If I maximize my events we can see down here the status has changed to create in progress to create 
 complete. 
 But just do a refresh think we can refresh here as well. 
 You'll be able to see a log of all the different events that have occurred and we should if we are able 
 to go to our outputs it'll give us our U.R.L. for our WordPress site would click on that should a launch 
 and this installation screen and we can go ahead and install Wordpress. 
 Now I'm not going to go ahead and do that but I'm gonna go ahead and have a look at the resources. 
 And here we can see that the resources is just an easy to instance as well as a web service security 
 groups which doesn't seem to be using ideas what we can do is we can just go over and check so you can 
 go over to ISIS and see if there's an ISIS database that has been provisioned because I'm getting the 
 splash screen There definitely isn't. 
 So it's just done. 
 It's installed my cycle on our easy to instance and we can see CRTC easy to instance in here and there. 
 Here it is my wordpress cloud formation template. 
 So that's how easy to instance in now. 
 So that's how a cloud formation works. 
 This is an incredibly simple cloud formation template you can have a cloud formation templates that 
 deploy really really super advanced stuff and you get a feel for what's available out there check out 
 AWP as quick starts and I'll leave a link in the resources section of the course but essentially you 
 can go ahead and launch a really super complicated environments using cloud formation templates that 
 have been designed by AWP solutions architects. 
 So if we went in and we had a look just trying to find the Microsoft ones. 
 So this is a new. 
 If you go by use case you can go down here and have a look at all the different use cases. 
 So if we go over to Microsoft for example we can go through and launch a Microsoft Active Directory 
 environment or we could go through and launch an Exchange server environment or you could do SharePoint 
 environment. 
 We have a quick look you can go here and just hit view guide. 
 It's going to take about three hours to deploy according to this. 
 It was last updated in March 2018 and you can just go through and read through this documentation and 
 when you want to go ahead and launch you just basically click this button and what it will do is or 
 fire up cloud formation and it will basically repopulate that S3 U.R.L. with the launch template for 
 SharePoint and you can create super complicated environments using quick start and you don't need to 
 know anything about cloud formation. 
 Amazon have already done all this for you. 
 So let's see how we can go ahead and delete that environment now because we don't need it anymore. 
 Just go over to cloud formation and click on it then click on the stack and all you need to do is go 
 to your actions and hit delete stack that'll delete the stack and by default it will delete all the 
 resources in the stack as well so it's going to delete our easy to instance. 
 So onto my exam tips around cloud formation just remember what cloud formation is club formation is 
 a way of completely scripting your cloud environment and then quick start is a bunch of cloud formation 
 templates already built by AWP solutions architects allowing you to create complex environments very 
 very quickly. 
 So now that we know what cloud formation is we need to look at one more technology which has a W as 
 elastic beanstalk. 
 It's gonna be a really really quick lecture about five minutes or less. 
 Essentially you just need to know what elastic beanstalk is and then you've finished the high availability 
 section of the course and we're just going to do a summary. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.