 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello lagers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at a plastic beanstalk. 
 Now this is a very very quick lecture you will get some Elastic Beanstalk questions in your exam usually 
 only be one or two and you more or less just need to know what it is and how it's different from cloud 
 formation in cloud formation as we saw in the last lecture. 
 It's very scripted it's all using Jason you can create massive templates and deploy resources at scale 
 but it's really use use for advanced W.S. uses Elastic Beanstalk is aimed at developers who have no 
 idea about eight of us who just basically want to go in a provisional WordPress site or provision a 
 journalist's Web site or something like that and they don't want to have to go and learn cloud formation 
 they all want to do it at a click of a button and that's all Elastic Beanstalk is and really for the 
 exam you just need to understand what it is at a high level and that you can do things like auto scaling 
 groups and you can do things like growing your Elastic Beanstalk automatically to respond to demand. 
 We'll have a look at that in a second. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the obvious console. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the adobe us console and you'll be able to find Elastic Beanstalk under compute and 
 actually a popular exam question can be name all the compute services or select all the compute services 
 so Elastic Beanstalk is one easy to as one. 
 Those are the two we've mostly covered off lambda is a service compute service. 
 So just know these at a high level. 
 So let's go into Elastic Beanstalk and if you've never used Elastic Beanstalk before you're going to 
 get a splash screen like this. 
 Go ahead and get started in here we're going to give our application a name. 
 I'm just going to call it Hello cloud gurus and in here we choose our platform so we can have a pre 
 configured platform such as P hp hp and my cycle is what we're using when we installed Wordpress and 
 we can use a sample application or we can upload our own code. 
 I'm just gonna use a sample application and go ahead and hit create application. 
 So as now in creating my environment it's going to take a few minutes so I'm just going to pause video 
 and wait for this environment to come back. 
 You can see as we go through here it's created a security group. 
 It's using Elastic Beanstalk. 
 It's create an S3 storage bucket for the environment data. 
 So it is going through and provisioning AWOL the resources. 
 It's all completely automated so you don't have to worry about anything. 
 You literally with elastic Bean Stalk upload your code and way you go. 
 So I'm just going to wait for this to come up online. 
 A of my environment has now been deployed. 
 So we've got down here all our recent events. 
 We can actually go and have a look at our environment just by clicking in here. 
 It's going to have a Euro and there you go. 
 Congratulations you're AWOL scholastic beanstalk p p HP application is now running on your own dedicated 
 environment in the adobe cloud and it also tells us what P version we're running some back in the elastic 
 beanstalk console. 
 I can go in here and change my configuration so we can go and modify our instance types we can ad load 
 balancers in here we can do a whole bunch of different things change our capacity from being a single 
 single instance to multi AC instances et cetera. 
 So the thing elastic being so-called come up an awful lot in the certified SAS ops administrator associate 
 exam as well as a certified dev ops professional exam. 
 It won't really come up too heavily in the certified Solutions Architect associate exam. 
 Other than knowing what it is and the fact that you can configure it to have capacity provisioning so 
 you don't just need a single easy to instance you can use auto scaling with elastic beanstalk and elastic 
 beanstalk is essentially just a way of deploying applications to the cloud. 
 You don't need to know anything about eight of us. 
 You can literally just go in upload your code and elastic beanstalk will inspect the code and say Okay 
 I need to provision a PSB environment for this. 
 So that's all it is. 
 So to delete this environment we just go over to services just click on elastic beanstalk again and 
 then just go up to actions and go to delete application and that will delete all the security groups 
 all the S3 Buckets. 
 The easy two instances et cetera et cetera. 
 Feel free to delete that application. 
 So what are my exam tips. 
 Well just remember what Elastic Beanstalk is. 
 So with Elastic Beanstalk you can quickly deploy and manage applications in the AWOL cloud. 
 You don't have to worry about the infrastructure that runs those applications. 
 So like we just saw we didn't have to worry about provisioning a PSP. 
 Sorry. 
 Easy to instance we didn't have to worry about going in and stalling HP. 
 We didn't have to worry about security groups or S3 S3 Buckets or anything like that. 
 Literally all we had to worry about is uploading our application an elastic beanstalk will automatically 
 handle the details of capacity provisioning load balancing scaling application health monitoring cetera. 
 So just remember what Elastic Beanstalk is. 
 Essentially it will grow out your infrastructure. 
 Think of it just like a beanstalk. 
 It'll grow out your infrastructure underneath you and all you give Elastic Beanstalk is some code and 
 then provision the infrastructure underneath you similar to the way a beanstalk grows very very quickly 
 and that's where it gets its name. 
 So that's it for this lecture everyone. 
 Hopefully you've learnt an awful lot about highly available architectures in the cloud in the next lecture 
 we're just gonna summarize everything that we've learned and then we're free to move on. 
 And so if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.