 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello bloggers. 
 And welcome to this lecture and this lecture what we're going to do is we're going to go in and configure 
 our easy to instance. 
 We're going to go in there and we're going to install Wordpress on there. 
 And then what we're going to do is we're going to create a post and in that post we're going to create. 
 We're going to add two new images. 
 And then what we're going to do is we're going to add some resiliency so we're gonna see where those 
 images are saved on our easy to instance and we'll look at a way of backing that up to S3 and do it 
 manually at first but then we're going to use cron as well to do it automatically. 
 Then we're going to put our easy to instance behind an application load balancer and then we're going 
 to connect our application load balancer up to Route 53. 
 So going to do an awful lot in this lesson and this is a lab and you will need to log into the eight 
 obvious console. 
 Okay so here I am in the AWOL console you might want to just check on cloud front an idea so make sure 
 that it's been deployed so you can see it's been deployed and enabled. 
 Full disclosure I did leave the office yesterday after recording the last lecture has been over 12 hours 
 so you might want to leave yours for an hour while your environment gets up online. 
 Likewise if we have a look at ideas you can see our database instances in here and you can see that 
 the status is available. 
 So next thing we need to do is go over to E2 and what we're going to do is going to assess each into 
 easy to instance we're going to make sure Apache is installed WordPress is installed and that everything 
 is up and running. 
 So just grab the public IP address of your easy to instance and go over to your terminal window. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in my terminal window I'm just going to SSA. 
 Too easy to hyphen user in and at then my public IP address then a minus I. 
 And then the name of my key which has my Irish keep her Dot PM and I'm gonna go ahead and connect into 
 that host. 
 And then we go connected in. 
 So I'm just going to elevate my privileges to route and I'm going to go ahead and clear the screen then 
 I'm gonna go over to my var dub dub dub reached here Al directory and we can see it in there if you 
 see your var dot dot dot Peachtree male directory it means a patch he has been installed and I type 
 in L less and I can see all my different WordPress files. 
 The other thing I might just want to check is whether or not my hasty access has been installed. 
 You can do that just by typing cat and then t access and just hitting enter and then we go you can read 
 that file so let's go ahead and clear the screen. 
 So one thing that bootstrap script didn't have was starting the Apache service and I will add that in 
 C you won't have to do this but I need to type in service h t DPD and then start and that has now started 
 the Apache service and you can check that just by typing service each TPD and then status and then that 
 will show you that it is now running. 
 So again I'm going to clear the screen and the next thing we're gonna do is go over to our Web browser. 
 So I mean my web browser I've put my IP address up here now that I've started the Apache service. 
 I just hit refresh and there we go. 
 We can see the wordpress installation screen so we're gonna go ahead and install Wordpress. 
 Let's go ahead and hit. 
 Let's go database name. 
 I'm just gonna call it a cloud guru and I'm going to copy and paste this into my clipboard. 
 I'm gonna use this as my default username and password. 
 You probably want to do something more secure. 
 It's totally up to you now in here. 
 If I'm just gonna enter the password in here and here we've got the database host and this says local 
 host. 
 Now you would have local host if you're running in my school on your easy to instance but we're not 
 doing that we're running my school on an RDX instance. 
 So what we need is our RDX endpoint and to get that we just go over to AWB. 
 Let's go down to RDX which is under database and then what we want to do is go into our RDX instance 
 and then just go and grab the end point. 
 So just click in there and you'll be able to get this end point so copy that into your clipboard and 
 then just go back over to your wordpress installation and paste it in. 
 There we go. 
 And then what I'm going to do is go ahead and hit submit. 
 Now if yours hangs for whatever reason that could be that you haven't opened up the security group on 
 3 3 0 6 0 actually hang when we hit this run this installation. 
 Now it says Sorry but I can't write to the WP wp config dot page file. 
 So you need to do is copy this into your clipboard and then went back over in our terminal window and 
 we need to create that file so we just type it nano WP and then config and then dot P HP and we're just 
 gonna pasted it in here and then that's all you need to do here control X and then yes and then enter. 
 And now we're back in our web browser or we need to do is go ahead and hit run the installation. 
 And like I said if it hangs. 
 That means that you haven't your security group is blocking your 3 3 0 6. 
 So you're my secret put make sure that you have done that but it should be instantaneous. 
 If you have that port open. 
 And so now we're ready to install Wordpress. 
 So it's already created our database inside ideas. 
 All right in here I'm going to call my site Hello cloud gurus. 
 My username is going to be a cloud guru my password. 
 I'm actually just going to do a cloud guru because it's easy. 
 It's very weak. 
 It's gonna ask me to confirm the use of a weak password email you may want to enter your email in there 
 I'm gonna enter mine in and then I'm gonna hit the install button and that has now installed. 
 So there we go WordPress has now installed so let's go ahead and log in and I was just asking for the 
 username password which is a cloud guru then a cloud guru gonna get it to remember me so I don't have 
 to keep doing this and we're gonna go ahead and log in. 
 So if now logged into Wordpress and we're ready to go and create our first post. 
 So the first post could be hello world but that's typically what it is there. 
 So we're now ready to create our first post so let's go ahead and hit add new and this will allow us 
 to go into our Wordpress and create a post so here's our title. 
 So I'm gonna call this hello cloud gurus and in here this is where we would write like our articles. 
 So hello cloud gurus. 
 Welcome to my awesome word press site. 
 And then what we might want to do is go in and add some pictures so you can click on this add image 
 and then what we want to do is go in and upload an image. 
 So just hit upload and I'm going to upload my very first one which is a picture of me and my son watching 
 the Falcon Heavy take a Tesla to Mars and this is pretty much one of the best days of my life. 
 We're at Kennedy Space Center. 
 That was the Falcon Heavy right there. 
 So that was the largest rocket ship in terms of thrust since the Saturn 5. 
 It's actually I think doubled the Saturn 5 and that took Elon Musk's original Tesla Roadster to Mars 
 it actually went past Mars and headed off towards the asteroid belt. 
 So there's that photo there. 
 Let's add just one more. 
 So I'm going to show you this one his star man. 
 So this is a real picture. 
 This isn't Photoshop or anything. 
 This is Elon Musk Tesla in orbit around the earth and there is Star Man which is like a mannequin it's 
 not a real person before anyone worries and said that was on February 6 2018. 
 I remember that day for the rest of my life. 
 So I've got these two. 
 We are now ready to go ahead and hit publish and we're going to go ahead and hit publish again. 
 And that has now been publishing go in and click the View Post. 
 You will be able to see that post in here. 
 And let's just go over to our terminal window. 
 Some back in my terminal window open unless I can go over to my WP content directory so C.D. WP content 
 then in here will be able to see our uploads directory. 
 If we go over to our uploads directory we can now see the current year. 
 So we go to the current year to 2019. 
 We can now see O2 so it's in February. 
 We go over here. 
 We should be able to see our two images. 
 So we've got the Falcon Heavy and the Tesla Earth. 
 So these are now saved on our easy to instance. 
 They're up in the cloud sitting on any B.S. volumes somewhere in a data center inside island. 
 And what we want to do is add a bit more resilience. 
 So if we just go back to our city of dub dub dub each team El directory just gonna go ahead and clear 
 the screen. 
 Okay. 
 So what we want to do is we want to make it so that every time somebody uploads a file to our WordPress 
 site that that file is also stored in S3 for redundancy and eventually what we're going to do is we're 
 going to force cloud front to serve those files using the cloud front distribution rather than using 
 the images on our easy to instance. 
 Because then the site will load a bit faster. 
 So the very first thing we want to do is make sure our S3 role is working. 
 So just type 8 IBS S3 l. 
 Hopefully you'll be able to see your S3 Buckets if you can't see your S3 Buckets. 
 Make sure that the roll is attached to your AC two incidents that gives you S3 access. 
 The next thing we're going to do is win a copy across those files. 
 So to do that we're going to type AWP of us S3 and then copy we're going to be doing this recursively 
 to type in recursive. 
 And this just means to copy all the files and folders within this directory and then we're going to 
 do it from Alvar dub dub dub hatched here Mel. 
 And then it's forward such wp content then forward slash uploads and the S3 bucket that we're going 
 to do this. 
 This is our S3 Buckets that serves as our cloud front origin. 
 So we're going to be using the one I think I called it. 
 There it is a cloud guru. 
 WP then hyphen media then hyphen RJ k 19 so you choose your bucket. 
 Go ahead and hit enter and that will then upload our files to our S3 bucket. 
 So next thing we want to do is add a bit of redundancy we could lose this easy to instance at any time. 
 So what we want is a full copy of our website in our S3 bucket. 
 A cloud guru DWP code. 
 So what we're gonna do is we can copy the entire directory in there. 
 That way if we lose our easy to instance we can have an auto scaling group with a bunch of easy two 
 instances. 
 As soon as they boot they pull down the code from the S3 bucket. 
 So how are we going to do that. 
 Well we're going to use the same command except we're just going to change it a little bit. 
 So we're going to instead of copying the uploads directory we're going to copy the whole thing. 
 So we're going to copy Alvar dub dub dub demo directory and then we're gonna do the iCloud grew WP and 
 instead of saying media we're gonna change this to code. 
 So typing code in here and then RJ key 19 I'm gonna go ahead and hit enter. 
 We can see that is now copying those thousand files up to our S3 bucket and that will be done in just 
 a couple of seconds. 
 And so now we have a full copy of our WordPress site in S3. 
 Again we can test that just by typing H.W. s S3 L S and then the name is S3 and then a cloud carrier 
 WP hyphen code hyphen RJ k 19. 
 And by hitting enter and then you can now see all our WordPress code is in there. 
 We type in L S we could also see that we've got our healthy dot reached PML from the bootstrap script 
 we can cap that so we can type healthy dot HMO and just make sure that we've got a file in there. 
 So just says healthy so we can use our Elastic Load balancers to do it the health check off that file 
 as well. 
 Another file we need to take a note of is our hasty access file so let's go in and see it. 
 It's it is actually hidden so we're going to go into hasty access and in here we've got what's called 
 a U.R.L. rewrite rule. 
 And this essentially allows our website to basically instead of serving the images out of easy to it's 
 going to serve our images out of cloud front it's going to rewrite the U.R.L. for all our images and 
 that's what it's doing actually just over here wp content forward slash uploads and then star so wild 
 card and so basically it's saying hey rewrite this U.R.L. to this new U.R.L. and so this is the U.R.L. 
 for Al cloud front distribution. 
 So what you need to do is go ahead and edit this. 
 Obviously you want to go to the dot net and then just go delete out the current cloud from distribution 
 U.R.L. and then what we want to do is paste in the new ones. 
 So let's go over to cloud front some back in the database management console. 
 We're going to go down to cloud front which is under network and content delivery. 
 You can get the domain name from in here or what you can do is click on the I.D. and then go down and 
 grab the Domain Name Here switch it a highlight that and copy it into your clipboard and then go back 
 over to your terminal window. 
 So back in our terminal window just pasted that in there. 
 If you just hit up you'll be able to see the rule now. 
 So that is now doing a U.R.L. rewrite to Al cloud front distribution. 
 So what we now need to do is just go control X and then just say yes to say and then say enter. 
 So now that we've done that we want to make sure our S3 bucket is up to date and we could copy the entire 
 directory again or we could use the sync command. 
 Just gonna clear the screen. 
 I'm gonna type 8 OBSS 3 unless I can definitely get my bucket name right. 
 And then all we're gonna do is type AWP S3 and then sync. 
 What are we gonna sync where we're going to sync our VAR dub dub dub heat Timo directory. 
 And where are we going to sync that to where we're going to do it to a cloud guru then hyphen and then 
 say it's a cloud guru. 
 WP hyphen and then it's code then a hyphen. 
 RJ. 
 K nineteen go ahead and hit enter and that should just sync the one file that has changed so you can 
 see here. 
 T access so that S3 bucket is now up to date. 
 So the next thing we want to do so now that we've done our U.R.L. rewrites and we've sent up our TV 
 access file to S3 it's still not going to work because we actually have to tell a patch that we're going 
 to allow U.R.L. rewrites. 
 So in order to do that let's just clear the screen. 
 So we're gonna do is we're gonna go over to our ATC and then HD DVD. 
 This is where Apache is installed. 
 We type in Alice we can see a configuration directory. 
 Let's go over to that and then if we type Alice again we can see our heat TPD dot com configuration 
 file now because we are gonna make a change to this it's always wise just to make a backup copy before 
 we do it just in case something goes wrong. 
 So just call it TPD and then copy and then dot com. 
 And that would just create a backup. 
 So we've got a backup of it now. 
 Next thing to do is just to go into nano. 
 So heat TPD dot com. 
 And what we're gonna do is we're going to allow you are our rewrite rules. 
 Now there are 362 lines you are going to have to scroll down a little bit. 
 So this is what you're looking for you just need to scroll down a little bit. 
 It basically says allow override controls what directives may be placed in the haste to access right 
 now it's saying none. 
 We want to change this to all. 
 And then that will mean that we are allowed U.R.L. rewrites and a U.R.L. RL rewrite will just rewrite 
 our U.R.L. to be using the cloud front distribution instead of using our Hey you know our public IP 
 address then forward slash wp content forward slash uploads et cetera. 
 So we're just going to save that hit exit and then we go right that file. 
 Now you don't technically need to do this. 
 I just always get into the habit every time I change a configuration file or a restart the service. 
 So I'm just going to type in service CBD and then restart totally optional. 
 It should when you change a configuration file in your easy to instance should take effect immediately. 
 But sometimes I just like to force a change. 
 So this is our bucket policy that we're going to use to make our website public or make the images public. 
 So just copy that into your clipboard and what we need to do is just go ahead and paste that in here 
 and we just need to update the A R N with this a R N so make sure you've done that. 
 So just type it in here and then go ahead and paste that in. 
 Make sure it's 100 percent correct. 
 And then go ahead and hit save as soon as you've done that. 
 What will happen is that you the UI will change and it will say that it's public. 
 Make it very very clear that this public bucket is public. 
 Now if you are getting an error message all I want you to do is just click on your bucket and go to 
 edit to public access settings and make sure these are all unchecked. 
 And then just go ahead and hit save. 
 It will then ask you to type confirm into here. 
 So I'm just going to type that in and then go ahead and hit confirm and then you can go back in here 
 and go to your permissions and apply your bucket policy. 
 So just click back in here. 
 Make sure you change the HRN but you just have to make sure that you can make the bucket public once 
 that's done you good to go. 
 Now the thing about cloud from is it takes a while to propagate some back over in my word press. 
 I wouldn't be surprised if this hasn't worked yet. 
 So hello cloud gurus is in here. 
 Click on the post. 
 It is already propagated. 
 Now it might not be that quick for you might take it might actually take an hour or two. 
 Sometimes it can be that long sometimes it's just 10 minutes it's up to you. 
 We go ahead and copy this image and paste it into our clipboard up here and hit enter and you can see 
 now that the U.R.L. rewrite is definitely working. 
 So it's using our cloud front U.R.L. to serve our images. 
 It's not using our static IP address. 
 So next thing we're gonna go do is we're going to go over and create an application load balancer and 
 we can move our easy to instance behind our application load balancer. 
 So I'm back in the 80s Yes management console. 
 Gonna go down to 2 we're going to go ahead and create an application load balancer. 
 Click on load balances in here. 
 Hopefully you've deleted your load balancer from the last few lectures if not go ahead and delete it. 
 Gonna go ahead and create a load balancer. 
 It's gonna be an application load balancer. 
 Gonna call it my Alby WP for wordpress. 
 It's gonna be Internet facing we're just gonna do each GDP gonna do it across all three availability 
 zones. 
 I'm gonna put this into my existing security group what's on my web DMZ. 
 Security Group in here we're going to create a new target group. 
 We're gonna call this target group. 
 My WordPress instances and the target type is gonna be an instance. 
 We're just going to be using each DDP and port 80 our health check is just healthy dot reached here 
 Mo and in here advance health checks settings so a healthy threshold. 
 Let's drop this down to 2 so you can see the minimum in here in here we're going to go for a healthy 
 unhealthy threshold of three. 
 How time out will just leave as five seconds. 
 Our interval. 
 Let's do this as five seconds and our success code is 200. 
 Next we're going to go and register a target. 
 It always catches me out this time out and interval. 
 This has got to be our health check time out must be smaller than the interval. 
 So we need to change this value to six. 
 Let's go ahead and hit next to register our target's going to registered this behind our application 
 load balancer. 
 Go ahead and hit review and go ahead and hit create. 
 And that has now created our application load balancer. 
 Now that is still provisioning. 
 Just going to refresh it. 
 I have been waiting for about three or four minutes and it is now active. 
 The last thing we're gonna do is we're going to go over to Route 53. 
 This is completely optional. 
 Depends if you decided to register a domain name or not. 
 But we're going to point our domain over to our last is our elastic load balancer. 
 So let's go in to our hosted zone and then in here we're going to create a record set. 
 It is going to be the next domain names to help cloud gurus 2019 dot com. 
 It is going to be an alias and then will click in here and we can see our application load balance in 
 there. 
 And I'm just going to leave everything as simple for now and go ahead and hit create. 
 So that is now pointing Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com to our application load balancer. 
 Now the thing about DNS is it always takes a while to propagate. 
 So the last thing we need to do is we need to go over to easy to we need to go to our target groups 
 and we actually need to place our easy to instance into our target group. 
 So if we actually have a look or just make this a little bit bigger click on targets right now you'll 
 see there's no registered targets going to go ahead and hit edit I'm going to click in here I'm gonna 
 say ad to registered and I'm going to go ahead and hit save and that will now add it to my register 
 targets. 
 It's going to take a while for this status to change and it's going to go through and run the health 
 checks. 
 So I'm just going to pause the video case I'm just going to refresh the screen hopefully the status 
 is changed from initial click on targets and it is now healthy. 
 So let's go over to our domain. 
 Zip opened up a new tab and pasted in here and there we go. 
 Hello cloud gurus 2019 dot com and we can see my two pictures that are there and again if I go and copy 
 the copy the image address and paste that in there it will go in and rewrite it to cloud front. 
 Now if this doesn't work don't worry about it. 
 I just wanted to show you a practical example. 
 Some people can tear their hair out at the U.R.L. rewrites if it's not showing a hitch. 
 It doesn't matter it's not going to come up in your exam. 
 It just means that something has gone wrong somewhere along the way. 
 But I would feel free to move onto the next lecture if it's still not working for you because it's just 
 such a minor thing anyway. 
 So that's it for this lecture everyone in the next lecture we're just gonna go ahead and set up our 
 EMI were then going to set up auto scaling and then we're going to go through and start terminating 
 instances and testing resilience if we get the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.