So before we get in and start creating resources and just going wild inside of the azure portal let's
talk about how accounts work and how subscriptions work and how you know you get your setting.
Setting yourself up for the first time and how that's all it needs to be organized so the first relevant
thing we want to talk about is the Azure subscription.
So the subscription is the level at which billing happens.
OK so when you are creating resources in short time we're gonna talk about creating resources.
When you start doing that that's going to get billed to whatever subscription you have to happen to
have.
And there's many different options for subscriptions to talk about in the second now because we have
some large companies out there with hundreds of thousands of employees.
It actually does make sense to have multiple subscriptions for a company.
So that way that the resources can be owned and managed by people that are more local to it and not
have to have millions of resources in a single account.
There's also limits within Azure that are at the subscription level.
So there is a maximum number of virtual machines you could have for a subscription.
The maximum number of storage accounts you can have for a subscription.
And so when you start getting big enough you're going to start you know getting to the points where
you're reaching the limits of Azure for a subscription.
Well then you can just create a second subscription and there are ways for those resources to connect
to each other.
So basically this subscriptions makes sense to have multiple of them.
Now once you get multiple subscriptions you start to have challenges organizing them.
And so Azure has this thing called management groups which can be used to organize multiple subscriptions
on screen is a diagram showing 10 subscriptions that are represented by the yellow keys there and also
some marketing groups.
And you'll notice the marketing groups are actually hierarchical.
So you can have a subscription that's part of a marketing part of a working group but that marketing
group is itself part of another marketing group.
And so it's sort of a tree structure going up and you can imagine that there's somebody at the top who
has control of the route management group and can see all of the subscriptions across the company and
set policies and set limits and all the things around that security.
And then as it goes down you can limit the the policies to specific departments to specific countries
and regions and development versus production etc..
So you know it's an inherited model of policies and so you can have policies at the top level and then
additional policies added in the middle levels et cetera so subscriptions and and management groups
are the way that you organize the billing structure within Azure.
Now let's not confuse us of Christian with an account so you can go to Azure dot Microsoft dot com and
in this case slash free for a free account sign up for being an account and get access to the Azure
portal for free.
Now you can have one subscription and you can have as many people as you need to have access to that
subscription.
So the account is the person it's the user I.D. It's the password and the subscription is is how resources
get charged and not every single person is going to have their own subscription.
They're going to be using the company's subscription the client's subscription etc. Now the free plan
we just saw on screen was was an example of the free plan which gives you 12 months of free services
plus 30 days with a two hundred dollar credit in the first month.
And if you're trying to learn Azure and you don't have access to an Azure account the free plan is absolutely
recommended and you know you're going to need a credit card for that but it's not going to charge you
it's going to have billing limits on it.
You can learn from a free account if you don't have access to an account but the free plan is not the
only option.
Companies these days you're gonna have enterprise agreement with Microsoft and since Azure has been
around for 10 years now as your resources are definitely part of your enterprise agreement with Microsoft
and so if you need 100 virtual machines you can negotiate that in talking with your Microsoft representative
and get that into your annual contract with with Microsoft and so enterprise agreements definitely probably
the most common way for large companies in the world today to be dealing with Azure.
OK.
So you just get these things part of your plan.
Now people like you and me or very small companies who are still operating with you know individual
credit cards or small departments who they've got the authorization to spend money can use a pay as
you go plan which is basically you enter your credit card into Azure.
Anyone can sign up.
You don't need an agreement with Microsoft and go ahead and you get to pay for your resources as you
use them according to your credit card.
So you pay the listed prices.
And now there are ways of getting credits.
And so if you have an MSD and subscription you can get 50 100 200 dollars a month in free credits just
by having an existing subscription.
There's also small business and startup plans like big spark.
If you're a student with a credit at university or institution there are credits as well and so pays
local plans quite common.
But but obviously in smaller companies not necessarily in the largest enterprises or within departments.
Now those are things you buy directly from Microsoft.
You go to the Web site or you have Microsoft representative you can also work with a Microsoft partner.
And so a Microsoft partner who's developing solutions could also be authorized to include the Azure
service as part of their contract with you.
So if you are getting a partner that is going to come in and develop a whole solution for you the partner
can include you know the 10 virtual machines at their prices into that deal it can be free for the client
paid for by the partner or special negotiated partners prices.
So you can have those two options for purchasing a subscriptions now.
When we talk a management groups one of the advantages of that kind of thing is you can create additional
subscriptions based on a blueprint.
So Azure has a thing called Azure blueprints which is what allows you to duplicate a subscription.
You can have a template that has these are the policies these the permissions that are already set the
groups the standardized tags all of the things can be set up in advance and you know standardized template
and then you use as your blueprints to make additional subscriptions.
As I said we have to understand that the account which is the user I.D. and password that you use to
log into Azure is not the same as the subscription.
Now when you sign up for a free plan or you sign up for the Pay As You Go Plan you're going to get the
subscription along with your account but then you can go ahead and create additional accounts and give
them access to your subscription without them having a subscription of their own.
Not everyone is going to have the same level of permissions inside of a subscription.
So there's going to be the owner of the subscription.
There's going to be what's called a contributor.
And we can even go down to the reader level which is a read only access within a subscription it gets
very complicated.
We're going to get us to security later on in this course but we can start to give people access to
individual resources at very fine grained levels we can create standardized rules give those rules access
and assign people to the rolls et cetera.
So just keep in mind when you're creating a subscription not everyone's an owner.
Not everyone has full permissions you can set very granular permissions for what people can and can't
do in your subscription.
Another thing you can do is set policies and so the Azure policy service is for setting like site wide
restrictions.
Let's say you don't want anyone to create VMS with six US 16 or more use.
And so you can set a policy that restricts VMS on the entire account on or on the entire resource group
et cetera.
Now we've only been talking about accounts this description so far but we haven't you know we haven't
talked about the virtual machines and the virtual networks and all of the databases.
So subscriptions contain resources like on screen is a diagram that shows from the magic groups and
the subscriptions.
The next level down is called a resource group.
So a resource group is like a file structure like a file folder.
It's you know in windows when you have files they go into a folder.
That's where you put resources you put them into a group.
It is actually mandatory that resources belong to one and only one resource group on the bottom tier
of this diagram shows you the individual resources which all belong to one group.
So this is a mandatory thing you can't create resources that are not part of a resource group.
The good thing about resource groups is that it is basically becomes a boundary for certain permissions
and reporting and you can delete the resources that are in the group very easily by deleting the resource
group itself.
And so it's very smart to organize your resources into groups and groups that makes sense.
So instead of having a single group that contains all of the possible resources you're ever going to
use create resource groups that are sort of intelligent that represent projects represent you know groups
of people etc..
And that way you can sort of restrict people to those groups give them permissions to only one group
but not another etc..
Finally Azure uses a tagging metaphor as well so beyond resource groups you can also set tags on resources
that allows you to have stuff for billing you can set environments.
There are some types of things you can do for scripting that are going to see anything tagged with this
following tag gets this happen to it.
So using the tagging system can also further lets you put metadata against your resources so let's summarize.
I know this has been a long video's a start and thank you.
You've got management groups that can be nested measure groups contain one or more subscriptions subscriptions
themselves contain resource groups and usually multiple resource groups person description.
And that's where resources get added into resource groups and so that is sort of the hierarchy of resources
subscriptions accounts and measure groups within Azure.
