So in this section of the course we're gonna talk about load balancing.
Now there are two kinds of load balancers within Microsoft Azure.
The load balancer is called a level for low bouncer and there's another one called application Gateway
which is a level 7 load balancer.
Now these have got a lot of things in common but there are some differences.
This video we'll talk about load balancing and we'll talk about application Gateway after that.
Now what is load balancing now basically a little balancing is the concept where you have traffic that
is coming in from another source of it.
In this case it could be the Internet or it could be from another application elsewhere within your
Azure network.
Traffic is trying to reach one one server but in order instead of having a single server doing all the
work you've decided to distribute the load across multiple servers two or more servers doing the same
job the load balancer is what does the distribution to ensure that one server doesn't get overwhelmed
with all of the traffic.
Now in this case the load balancer which is the level four only makes those determinations based on
five factors which are the source IP and port the destination IP import and the protocol so based on
those factors it can decide which back end pool is going to be the one to send traffic to and out of
those it's going to use an algorithm to distribute the load based on based on some algorithmically now
that means that the load balancer is a fairly dumb device.
There's not a lot of intelligence here.
It really is just someone comes in the door sends them to server when someone comes in the door sends
them to server to someone else comes in the door sends them the server three and that's called a round
robin algorithm.
There are other ways of handling this.
Now one of the.
So that's one of the benefits of a low bouncer as it basically is able to distribute the traffic that
would normally go to a single server into multiple servers.
The other benefit is that it is able to detect if something goes wrong with any of these servers and
basically drop it out of the rotation.
So let's say at some point server three stops responding we send a traffic and then a timeout happens
and it doesn't that never returns with a response.
We can then make that determination after one or two or more failings at that server three is dead and
we can basically just cut it out and only send traffic to server 1 and 2 so not only does it distribute
the traffic but it also monitors the health of the recipients and can then cut them out of the rotation
when they are no longer healthy.
So that is that is the primary function of a load balancer go into Azure under networking we can see
that we have these options let's create ourselves a little balancing even the names that eschew the
new L.B. classic thing for a load balancer first decision that we have to make is whether it's a public
or private load balancer external or internal public load balancer has a public IP address and a public
name that means that it's addressable from the open Internet.
If we made it an internal bouncer it has a private IP address does not have a public IP address and
is absolutely not addressable from the open Internet.
So we want a public low bouncer.
Then we need to create in a public IP address so let's give the IP address and the needs energy new
IP.
We just want a basic address.
We do not need a static IP that never changes.
We are fine with an IP that will go occasionally change because we're gonna use the name of the IP address
the domain name essential to address it not the IP address so we can optionally choose a IP v 6 address
within Microsoft Azure the load balancer is one of the few devices that supports IP B6.
So if you have an application that you want need to work over IP B6 and you need an IP of Ivy 6 address
then you are forced to put a little bouncer in front of it.
So even if there's only one virtual machine you would put a load balancer in front of that to be able
to create a B6 address then the load balancer is going to address translate from the V sixth address
of the little bouncer into the private IP addresses of the machines behind these my usual subscription
I created a brand new resource group for this I call this New York app so this new I'm going to create
this low bouncer as the first resource inside of my New York app a Resource Group and let's leave it
into e us to
now while we're waiting for that little bouncer to be created we did notice that you gave us the choice
between a basic and a standard load balancer now their standard load balancer is a relatively new feature
set within Azure and basic is the default but you can't use standard let's look at this web page that
shows you the difference.
So a basic load balancer supports up to 100 instances.
Behind this behind the scenes or as a standard 1 10x is that to a thousand.
By the way this table formatting is a bit skewed but that's not my fault.
Within the standard little bouncer we can address any virtual machine in the virtual network and it
could be a blend of virtual machines all those sets and the VM SS scale sets whereas for the basic low
bouncer you get a single the choice of a single availability set or a single virtual machine skill.
It does support the EU to the US traffic in load balancing in terms of health probes.
I guess if you're if you're web app or your website only supports e G.P.S. traffic then you are forced
to use a standard low bouncer.
It does have some additional stay alive options for the health probe it supports the new Availability
Zones move and talked about that.
Yeah but it's another way that applications can be distributed for high availability scenario standard
load balancers can support that basically move bouncers cannot we've got the ability of as your monitor
which is Microsoft's new monitoring dashboard we can now pulling log in events from this low bound certain
to that
secure by default so little bouncers basically will bouncers are default open and you would have to
then set up your network security group to shut down traffic to load bouncers or as you would need light
listed it used to be white listed in order for traffic to come in.
This is the new thing for a lot of resources blocked by default denied by default as opposed to a few
years ago when a lot of things were opened by default.
So we can sort of see on the cyber page that there is some very advanced things in terms of different
outbound rules.
Basically allowing traffic to be sent outbound based on IP addresses or public prefixes etc.
management operations are a lot quicker.
There is an SLA the SLA here.
Remember in the virtual machines the SLA is two or more virtual machines ninety nine point ninety nine
percent or as the SLA is on the load balancer itself here and pricing.
The more complex pricing whereas basically load balancers spree so you do have some decisions to make
it pretty much in a production environment you probably want to stand pick the standard load balancer
simply because it hasn't necessarily although to investigate the pricing for that.
