So right now we have a basic load balancer that has a single public IP address that is sending traffic
to this set of virtual machines has a health probes and we have a single set of low bouncing rules for
port 80.
Now there are times when we have our virtual machines with more than one type of application running
on it so we can actually create another public IP address on the same low bounce or so let's add the
second
load balancer IP to this load balancer.
We're going to choose from our existing public IP.
I created a public IP called Second IP and we're basically gonna say the second IP is now assigned to
this load balancer pain it's going to take a second to update but we don't have any rules defined for
that IP address.
So right now the little bouncer wouldn't know what to do with that traffic.
Again it wouldn't be configured yet for that traffic Let's assume though that we're going to leave our
eye back and pull the same.
We're not adding any new servers.
These three virtual machines are still the virtual machines that are going to respond to all traffic
that go down to load balancer rules and we're going to add a second set of rules.
Now this is second rules.
You've got a nickname here now instead of using the default IP address we're going to use the second
IP address that we created now since we're sending traffic to the same backhand pool we probably don't
want to.
Or we can accept traffic on port 80 but we probably want to use a different IP address port for that.
So if we were to go into the 80 80 ports then we can have two applications running in our virtual machines
one responding to port 80 or the other rule in a different application set up an IRS responding to port
80.
So using different ports allows you to have multiple web servers essentially responding to traffic for
the same IP address.
Now we pretty much could rely on the same help probably wanted to but since we're using a different
port we probably should create a new health probe for Port E.
And if I could do that but I won't.
But basically we would want a second health probe for the second application same settings in terms
of sessions and timeouts etcetera.
OK and now we have a single load balancer that's accepting traffic from two IP addresses to unique domain
names for instance and sending this traffic to the same back end servers using different rules.
So accepts it on port 80 sends it back on port 80.
The rule that's being updated now.
Accepts it on port 80 for different IP address but send it to the back end pull over port E.
And so we can we can see that we can have multiple rules in the same load balancer basically handling
all traffic going to this back and call and we really wanted to get fancy now in the basic low bouncer.
We can only support this one back in pool in a standard low bouncer.
It allows us to have a mixture of virtual machines and other devices remember.
So this is the top level overview of a load balancer which again it's only handling IP addresses you'll
see that we did not have the option to configure based on you or our domain name power or anything like
that.
Purely doing traffic filtering based on IP addresses and ports.
The the application Gateway is what allows us to do that higher level of traffic.
