All right so I'm going to delete this load balancer and we're going to set up an application Gateway
instead.
This way we can have a load balancer and an application Gateway pointing to the same set of back calls.
So let's close the so we're going to go back into the marketplace go back into networking and we're
going to look at the second option here this application Gateway now like I said and application Gateway
is similar to load balancer in that it distributes traffic between two or more servers.
But in the case of an application Gateway it's a more sophisticated device.
I would consider this to be an intelligent device as opposed to the dumb device that a load balancer
is so as a a.
D new application gateway.
Now we do get some sophisticated options when it comes to pricing the standard Gateway is just like
a little bouncer provides little balancing features.
You also have the Web Application Firewall which has the gateway plus a a more sophisticated firewall
option as well.
Let's just stick with the standard Gateway now do we want to have manual or auto scaling see right away.
We can see that we are being given more sophisticated options for scaling our application Gateway than
we did for low bouncer which is a single device.
So now we can have two application gateways that can grow based on demand essentially let's put this
into our New York app resource group East U.S. because remember the low bounce recipe in the same location
the virtual machines.
Now the application Gateway gives us this concept of availability zones.
Now we have really talked about availability zones yet but availability zones is a way of distributing
multiple devices in this case application gateways into specific data centers.
So instead of just saying it's e us to then we can go zone 1 zone 2 or zone 3.
Now keep in mind that not every region has availability zone.
So I go into Canada and availability zone is blocked out.
OK but if we go into central U.S. It's available to go into East U.S. it's not available East us too
it is available.
This is when I was at Microsoft ignite the rollout of availability zones is a lot of very hard difficult
work for Microsoft.
So they basically got to change out the whole way that they do networking behind the scenes in order
to be able to handle this type of functionality.
I'm not going to choose available zone I'll let I'll let Azure deploy this build our application gateway
into whatever data center it thinks is most appropriate.
But if what if high availability is our our goal we're going to have to specify one goes into one zone
another goes into another zone etc..
So I'm going to click OK.
We're going to get onto the next set of settings.
We need to put our application gateway on to a virtual network.
We might have to create a new virtual network for this new virtual network to it's going to put it into
the tent out to space.
We're going to have to create a default subnet along with the
new version.
It's going to be created.
Now we get.
We still have the same distinction between public external load balancing and internal private balancing.
OK we're going to leave it as public.
Do we have the option to create an IP address.
And so we're going to let it create a brand new public IP address.
We can get into the settings if we want to even give it a name.
So let's call it things that you availability
application.
So this low bouncer can basically have a name.
Now of course we can set a custom DNS is so that this is a friendly name for users.
We're going to listen on issue to P. port so right away we can see the application Gateway is talking
about protocols a should a P and a [REMOVED] P pass.
So this is a more aware of what we're doing with the traffic as opposed to being fixated on port 80
we can easily be too enabled or disabled.
We don't have the web application firewall setup.
Of course we could have chosen that tier can again Microsoft's giving a second option to upgrade to
the Web Application Firewall and say OK we get the options to review what we are getting signed up for
and then we'll click.
OK.
So now we're going to wait for it to create us our application me.
