So we can see that our little balancer got created and our public IP address associate with that little
bouncer.
Let's go into the little bouncer.
Now we've only created a little bouncer but we haven't hooked it up with anything.
There is no servers there's no back in pools of virtual machines that are waiting to receive traffic.
We haven't set up the health probes in order to determine if those servers are healthy.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm going to create three virtual machines and an availability set and then
we're going to show you how to add that availability set to this again.
It's a basic level basic SKU little bouncer so we're restricted to only virtual machines individual
virtual machines or virtual machines and availability set.
So I'm going to pause this and create three virtual machines and availability so all right.
So I've created three new virtual machines in an availability set let's add this to the load balancer.
So we go into back pools and we say add we have to give it a name.
So a z a load balancer back in a Pool Ip before.
And it's a matter of associating with one of three things.
Now I can associate it with an availability set which is what we're going to do in this case.
We can associate it with a single virtual machine which then we'd have to do it multiple times for the
low bouncer to have multiple virtual machines or we can associate it with the virtual machine scale
set.
Remember we saw in the basic little bouncer you can only choose one of these option.
So the question is what availability set.
Now the availability set must exist within the same region as your little bouncer.
Makes sense because if you think of your little bouncer as running on a server with an e us to region
you want your virtual machines also in East us to region don't have your virtual machines in Europe
or your load balancers in United States that's going to be a very high latency slow thing to do and
obviously Microsoft doesn't even allow that.
So the availability set must exist within these us too.
And we're not done yet.
We still have to add the virtual machines inside of this.
OK so we've got our availability set and now we can choose our virtual machines have created a set VM
one VM to an VM three there's one network interface card on each of those.
And so we're going to choose the one network interface card we're going to go to the second virtual
machine choose that America interface card and the third virtual machine and the third network interface
card.
So now we have to put that close to that.
All right.
Now we have three virtual machines that were in availability set that are going to be part of our back
in court.
Let's click OK.
This isn't like that.
So it's that quick OK that's going to take a few minutes for this pack and cool to be constructed now
well that's running.
We can see that it's some deployments are going on here.
Let that run and let's talk about health pros.
So we're going to go into the health section.
Now remember we said that little bouncers they're pretty dumb machines except they do have the ability
to check on the verge.
The health of the virtual machines in their backyard pool and then if they just text one is not responding
within a reasonable time then it will kick that machine out of the virtual back in court.
So let's create a health probe to give it a name like usual.
So let's call it health it's IP V for now the health probe can either check on the status of a port.
So in this case it's just going to ping a port 80 over the CCP protocol and then every five seconds
in this city every five seconds it's going to touch port 80 and if it fails to open port 80 twice consecutively.
So it takes about 10 seconds of failures before it says are unhealthy health probe has been triggered.
So this is a within 10 seconds.
This will detect that port 80 is no longer open another popular way to do that is based on the HP probe.
So even if port 80 is responding that doesn't mean that your application is healthy.
OK.
So you may want to pull in the web page that's at the root the home page if you will.
And then if it's able to get a two hundred success code from the home page then that's a considered
a healthy probe or two consecutive failures to be unhealthy.
A lot of people will create a stand alone web page like health diet a sham or probe each team where
you can make this part of your application and so that you're not pulling down your home page which
might be fairly heavy page and might cause your application some performance concerns if you're hitting
that home page every five seconds.
And so creating a standalone page that is simply for the health probe to check on the status might be
a smart alternative.
OK so you'll see that there's pros and cons to checking just the port or checking the application or
having some kind of proxy page that is designed to fail if your application isn't up.
Now be careful obviously with an HMO page that could very well continue working while your home page
is not responding or while your dot net application is not responding.
So there's some strategy in terms of choosing your healthiness.
Let's change it to the TGP probe so that doesn't matter what application we have running as long as
Port Edi is responding then we are considered healthy actually considered healthy having enabled 443
for those servers.
So now we're creating a health probe that is simply simply going to be happy if caught Ada is responding.
Now for these virtual machines that I've created I actually haven't logged into them to set up I guess
to set up web servers on them.
I have an added the web server role so I imagine port 80 is going to fail.
So while we're waiting for this back and cool to finish updating while we're waiting for the health
probe to be created we know that these servers are not going to respond in port 80 because I haven't
set them up yet.
So I would expect all three servers within 10 seconds of them being lied to basically be kicked out
of the pool because they are they are not responding in Courtney
All right.
We have our server setup.
We have our health probes.
Now let's set up the load balancing rules because as it stands right now this load balancer isn't configured.
It's not.
It doesn't have any rules.
And so we're going to have to create one.
So at least one set of low down.
So rules so it's an IP before load bouncer.
We've got our IP address which is low bouncer front end.
We are accepting traffic from the public over port 80.
We are sending traffic to the other VM is over port 80.
So there is the possibility of what's called net or Net address translation network address translation.
So we could have poor 80 1880 set up on the victims.
And then the load balancer handles the public port.
That would be a security setup but we're going to leave it as as a pass through where poor EDI comes
in important he goes out.
We've got our pool which is the only pool we've set up the three virtual machines.
We've got our health probe which is the only health problem we have.
We do not.
We do not support sessions.
And so each client that comes in is going to be put to a random virtual machine.
We're not going to send the same client to the same virtual machine we could of course say the same
IP address always goes to the same virtual machine.
If we wanted to enforce have sessions but in this case we won't.
And basically we can ignore this idol.
We can do of Tetris and say OK and this is basically what is required between the back end pulls the
health problems and the little bouncing rule in order to get this little balancing working.
So once this rule gets deployed then we're going to have a working with load balancer.
