All right so we're back to our application Gateway and let's go in to our back and forth.
Now remember when we were setting up our load balancer we had to basically set up an availability set
into a backyard pool.
We have a default back and pool that Azure is giving us here.
We go into it and there are no targets associated with this.
Now the really cool thing is that we can now target IP addresses or fully qualified domain names as
our back pool.
This allows us to have Azure be the little bouncer and have the servers themselves hosted elsewhere
so we can have you know Amazon NWS servers that are hosted in Amazon but using the little bouncer from
Azure or from our own on premises environments.
Now this isn't necessarily smart because there's some lag time and some latency introduced but basically
we can have any device that responds to IP address me behind our application.
We obviously want to deploy this to our virtual machines.
We still have the virtual machine skillset option.
We also have apps services.
So if we wanted our application gateway to be the front end to a number of apps services we could.
Now remember app services normally have their own load balancer built in if we had two or three instances
of an app service then the low bouncer taken care of by the app service but if you had several app services
that are all having the same function hosted in different areas of different regions for instance then
you can put a application gateway in front let's choose virtual machine now in order for us to choose
virtual machine has to be virtual machines running in the same region and also on the same virtual network
as our application Gateway you'll notice that even though we set up our virtual machines in an availability
set we have the option of setting of choosing them individually so we don't actually pick the availability
set unlike the little bouncer we are just picking the virtual machines and we're picking their network
interfaces.
Now I'm going to say save and so now I'm I'm adding three virtual machine targets into the back pool
now in terms of our IP configuration.
Remember we have a public IP address associated with this.
And so it's basically we any traffic that comes in over this IP is going to be distributed to our backing
pool if the application has a listener setup.
So it's listening for traffic over port a and it's going to use real one or back into the rules and
what we have here is basically a basic set of rules.
Let's let's add you see here we can have basically just all traffic over port 80 or we can have this
this additional thing called Path based.
Now this is again that sets application gateways apart.
We can create new rule.
We don't have any unassociated listeners would have to create that.
But basically we can start to see
that anything that comes in to slash the API it's sent to one set of servers and anything that comes
in to slash images gets set to a different set of servers and anything that comes in to slash the root
will get set to a different set of servers so we can set up a more sophisticated set of logic that will
redirect traffic to different sets of servers over different rules.
So this is how path based rules work in application gateways and there's one thing that makes application
gateways completely different from low bouncers.
