So in this video here to talk about as your power show now as your power show has a little bit of a
complicated history at the end of 2018 Microsoft deprecated the old version of Azure power show that
was called Azure r m.
Now as 2019 and beyond the new standard is called a Z module.
So if you're using the Azure M module you're a little out of date.
Now I have both installed in my system I have power shall 5.1 installed which is an older version of
Power shell that has the Azure arm modules and I also installed powerful core six point two and I installed
the new A-Z modules.
So in this way I was able to get both the old Azure and modules and the new A-Z modules running on my
systems side by side.
Ordinarily it's not possible to have both Azure Ahram and A-Z.
If you're gonna go with one I suggest getting the A-Z module because that's just the new standard and
there's no going back to Azure r m but if you do need as your arm on your system for historical reasons
then I do suggest having two versions of power show essentially I'm going to put a link to this web
page that shows you how to do this in the resources section of this video and you can see how to download
powerful core 6 which is a new version of Power show and it's just run this install module script in
order to get the A Z module installed alongside a power show.
And if it's a little bit confusing I apologize but we have power show and we have the Azure extensions
for power show.
Now I'm going to update my version of A-Z.
I'm learning to dot three dot two right now but I happen to know that Microsoft has 2.5 out there and
I know this because the documentation page shows to documentation for two five.
So I'm gonna run the install module command but I'm going to put this dash force that will force it
to install an updated version.
So I'm going to hit enter.
It's gonna now go to the Web Internet and grab these modules the updated 2.5 version modules and we'll
see this on screen.
Now there's quite a number of them there's a few dozen modules and so it's going to run through them
one by one in alphabetical order so we can see we're on the the A's and B's now we're gonna be A-Z dot
C..
So we're going gonna let that run for a second and fast forward the video when we come back.
It'll be installed
now.
That was pretty quick.
It live in less than a minute installed a new version of 2.5.
Now we're going to see something strange when I run the get installed module command again.
It's actually going to come back with two versions of the A-Z module installed so I.
There is no update process within this with Empower shell for a Z module you basically are forced to
install the next release of it.
Now this is OK because the import module command when we do go to use these modules it will grab the
latest module by default so it will grab the 2.5 module if it exists.
So having both installed on my system isn't going to hurt anything or shouldn't hurt anything.
Much like having multiple versions of dot net framework installed on your system there is a way to uninstall
two dot three or two if that bothers you but you can see it's a rather lengthy power shall command it
goes through all the modules installs uninstall them one by one.
I'm just going to let it run.
I don't think there's any harm in letting in having two versions of A-Z on your system.
