So now that we have a power show installed in the A-Z module installed and we've connected to Azure
let's go ahead and create a virtual machine that's in the past our Azure our M module.
The old one it was a bit more difficult.
You had to use a lot of different commands to create a virtual machine.
Thankfully Microsoft has remedied this and the new a Z module makes it a lot simpler.
Now the first thing we need to do is we need to create ourselves a Resource Group.
Now I find resource groups are helpful because it allows us to delete resources.
So if a bunch of things get created into a resource group once you're done with it you can just delete
the resource group and it deletes all of the associated resources you'll find as you go into power show
that the commands are kind of predictable.
I mean there's always a verb followed by a hyphen followed by the A-Z followed by the service name or
the resource name.
And so this is new a Z Resource Group.
If I wanted to delete it it would be delete resource group if I wanted to get a list of all resources.
It's gets hyphen a Z Resource Group.
So let's go ahead and create new a Z Resource Group.
Now we have to give it a name.
Dasha NAME AND I'M GOING TO CALL THIS IS IT S JD new our G test.
It has to be unique on my account for this region and I will hopefully that is not been done before
I have to choose a location location is the region.
So I'm going to put this in the east U S region hit enter and this will go and create the resource group.
We can see here it says succeeded if we did go into the Azure portal we would see an empty resource
group with this name minute.
Now we want to create the virtual machine the command for creating a virtual machine is new A-Z VM very
easy to remember in this instance.
Now the good thing about this is that it used to take many different commands to create a virtual machine.
And now we can just give it the settings just like we do in the portal and Azure will go off and create
those resources so resource group name we just created the A-Z SJ d new R G test resource.
So let's go ahead use that one.
Now we have to give the VM a name that's dash name.
And this is called a Z SJ d new VM
location.
Let's put the the virtual machine in all of its resources in the same location as the resource group.
We have to give the virtual network a name.
Now if we had an existing one we could specify it in this case we don't.
So we're going to give it a new name and it'll create a new virtual network for me.
Now subnet
I'm happy with the default subnet name the network security group.
So if I cease if I hit the tab key It automatically fills it.
So security group name.
And this is new.
And as G
and find the public IP address.
So if we want this to have a public IP address and give that IP address and name my IP address.
And finally.
Which ports we want to get into this now you know by default you want none of them but maybe you want
80 for the web server and 3 3 8 9 which is the RTP port.
OK maybe we want four for three as well.
For the other web server.
So 3 3 8 9.
So this new a new AC VM command we're giving it all of the parameters just like we're going through
the wizard.
And when we hit enter it should go off and create this virtual machine
now these are going to be the administrator credentials remember when we create a virtual machine.
We have to give it a user I.D. and password and so I'm going to give it the user I.D.
thankfully it still hides the password from me.
And so I'm going to enter.
So this is what we're gonna use our DP to get access to the virtual machine using these credentials.
Here we are showing us 8 percent.
We're going to let that run we'll come back to it.
So that was it basically went off.
Created a new virtual machine with an Azure it's coming back with this status to say that it's that
it's worked.
So let's head over to the Azure portal and just see that it's there.
So this is cool the A-Z as shady new VM is indeed running in that resource group.
It's got an IP address.
We can see that it successfully successfully ran.
OK now we could obviously from this point go in our DP into the machine we make sure that the port number
was open and download dirty pop RTP file and connect right into it but just wanted to demonstrate to
you that using power show relatively easy nowadays to create a virtual machine in one single command.
I mean we created the resource group but in one single command we've got a virtual machine.
Now you'll notice that it didn't we didn't enter the instance type.
We didn't add any additional disks or tagging.
There's a lot of things we left out here.
But as you just went ahead and took the default the default size off we go back to the portal.
We can see that is a DSA one machine.
So very small machine.
And if we wanted something different we could have specified a different instance type.
We also don't specify the operating system in it chose this Windows Server 2016.
But if you need to use power show to create a VM I mean look how simple it is it's could be fairly simple.
