Now, let's talk about migration.
Now, you might have an existing on premises environment or host an environment that has dozens of servers
or hundreds of servers, all different kinds of workloads.
Your databases are there.
You've got data in a form of files and, you know, other on disk data elements.
All of that is in your hosted environment.
And you're like, well, how hard is it going to be to move this stuff into the cloud?
Well, it's obviously within Microsoft's best interest to help you.
So we're going to look at the azure migrates tool.
I enter the word migrate into the search box and I'm shown azure migrate.
Now we are going to talk about data migration services eventually.
But let's start talking with azure migrate now.
Azure migrate is a hub for migration.
And not only does the assessments of your own premises, but it can also help you with the migration
of physical machines, virtual machine from VMware and Hyper V.
It also does databases and VDI is Virtual Desktop Instances, which is a Microsoft virtual desktops,
web apps and raw data in the form of files in terms of data box products.
So this tool not only does the assessment, it does the migration to so everything starts with a project.
So if we go into the migration goals and we see servers now going to create a new project from this,
click here to create a new project.
So I'm going to create a new resource group.
I want to call this AISI Migrate.
And the project called Migration Test.
Can't contain spaces, and I'm going to click create.
So this is starting up this new project for this example, now, assessing your migration is going to
start with.
I'm already here, I hopefully.
So this is migration test.
Now it starts with an assessment, so we are going to want to discover the on premises virtual machines
by downloading some software or by filling out a CSFI file.
So click discover to get started.
So we have to do this.
Discover now we can download a virtual machine image.
That would be something that we can start up and assess our environment, or we can download the zip
folder with a PowerShares script that can run on an existing virtual machine to assess that environment.
So there's software already available.
Now, once you've done that, you do the work, you run the script and it does the discovery of your
various environments from within your network.
Then you have to wait for that to complete and it will upload your results here.
Now you can choose whether you're using VMware hypervisor or with physical machines.
So, in fact, I can download this power shift script here and you can see it's downloading, run the
script and then it will configure the discovery.
I'm going to do that.
The other option is to use CSV file, where you can download template, fill out, you know, fill out
with all your information and then upload the template.
Now, it turns out the script requires a specific version of Windows Windows Server 2016, specific
version of Power Shell, I decided to switch over to the template.
I downloaded the template.
It did come with some testate in here.
We can see 10 servers that are set up with the server name, how many cores it has, how much memory
it has, which operating system it runs, any version numbers and things like that.
So I'm going to leave the test data and we're going to upload this back into Azure and we're going to
see what their assessment is of this architecture.
So important, and so it's a small file, it was uploaded, it's now doing analysis and it's going to
have a report for me into the project.
You can start creating assessments 10 minutes after the import is complete.
So we'll let that run, and you can see here that it's actually saying there were four warnings in this
file.
I'll let this run 10 minutes and then we'll see what kind of assessment that we get at the end of it.
So when we come back, we'll be looking at the assessment of this environment in Asham Migrate.
