Now, one of the responsibilities that you have running a virtual machine in the cloud is to maintain
the virtual machine in terms of operating system updates and whatever software you have installed updates
as well.
So Azure has basically created a new type of update management.
So instead of having the traditional Windows update manager running on the machine, you can set up
a schedule for that in Azure or in the virtual machine itself in Azure Portal.
And we're going to go down into operations and there is update management inside of that operations.
Again, the service is included for Azure Virtual Machine, so there's no additional service.
But we do need to have log analytics enabled log analytics is a extension that is installed on the virtual
machine and it pulls out, you know, CPU and memory and disk usage and all those performance figures
can be pulled out into log analytics.
And so a lot of analytics workspace is required, an automation account is required.
And so based on those two things, then we can set up update management.
So I do have an automation account depending on the location of the virtual machine.
So I guess I don't have one in WUIS to so log on to account workspace automation account.
And I say, ANÍBAL, do not navigate away from this until it's enabled.
So this is going to take up to 15 minutes to deploy this new log analytics workspace and the automation
account to get created.
And we're going to pause the video and come back.
Then we're going to be able to manage the Windows updates for virtual machines.
So it's taken a few minutes, and when I return back to update management, I can see that this machine
has some updates that are ready to go.
So because it's a relatively new machine, Microsoft has published some updates since the last time
the image was pushed into the marketplace.
And so we've got Microsoft Defendor antivirus updates, the malicious software removal tool, of course,
and there are a, you know, first quarter updates for server 2016, which is what I'm running.
So I can basically schedule these updates to run at a time that's convenient for me.
And of course, this is disruptive to whatever application is running.
But if you deploy your application in a, you know, multiple VMS behind a load balancer, then you
can manage updates at different times and it won't be disruptive to the application as a whole.
So you can manage uptake management right within the Azure portal and it's not relying on the update
manager that's built into windows.
