So in this lesson we're going to talk about the resources that Microsoft provides to Azure architects
particularly around the Azure architecture center.
It is definitely worth it if you're either working as an architect designing and implementing solutions
within Azure or studying for the Azure architecture exams to be familiar with the Azure architecture
center.
It's a bit of a hidden resource but it contains a lot of the things that architects require.
Now the URL is on screen docs up Microsoft dot com slash in iPhone US slash Azure slash architecture.
I'm also going to attach a link to this video as well as put this in the amazing Azure resources lecture.
Go up to the top of this course looking for amazing Azure resources and you'll see a bunch of links
including this one now the what makes the Azure architecture center so good is it sort of organizes
all of the concepts and ideas around Azure architecture into sort of one one portal.
In particular we can look at the cloud design patterns for instance.
So there is a section within the architecture center called Design Patterns and it lists a couple of
dozen to three dozen design patterns for working within the cloud.
These patterns are organized around what you're trying to achieve.
So if you're trying to achieve availability there are a set of design patterns around that how you handle
data messaging monitoring and all of these related architect level concerns.
Security's a big one.
So there's again couple of dozen patterns to go through and that will basically help you to decide how
to design your resources specifically for Azure.
In addition to the patterns there's also this overall document called the application architecture guide
and so you can actually just sit down and read through a document like this.
It's going to mean a lot of this is going to be covered in this course but it's also good to see it's
straight from the horse's mouth.
So they see and to see what Microsoft says about the difference between traditional on premises applications
and modern cloud applications.
We can see they're describing traditional premises applications as monolithic.
They use the relational databases.
There is the occasional big updates as opposed to frequent small updates etc. We can we can sort of
see sidebar aside what modern cloud architects design applications around versus some of the traditional.
Now of course we're going to see both.
You're going to use relational databases in the cloud as well.
But the trend as we get into platform as a service and server less is to get away from some of these
traditional architectures.
And so again even this architecture guide is designed into architecture technology design quality etc..
