So it took about six minutes to create our Cuban in his cluster I can say go to resource right on the
deployment screen here and here it is the overview for our coverage cluster created exactly as we expected
it because we had three nodes of two course each that six total course.
OK.
Now what we want to do is we want to use the command line to connect to this cluster because at this
point we're going to start interacting with this from the command line.
So we're gonna use cloud shell dis greater than sine underscore in order to connect with the command
line and in the last demo we used a power show.
Why don't we switch over to the azure sea ally to interact with this.
So we're gonna use a command line here.
Now Cuban is the tool to connect with it.
It's called cube steel cube controls.
K You beat CTO
before we can call it though we do need to connect to this cluster.
So we're gonna use the A-Z a k s command line to connect to the cluster and we're gonna call the get
credentials method of that we have to give it the Resource Group.
This was created in the is it 2 or 3 new V M Resource Group.
And yours will be different.
And I have to give it the cluster name.
We can see even up here the cluster name is a Z.
JD new cluster so this basically sets up Mike cloud show to have the right context for this cluster.
Now we can use cube CTO it's almost an embarrassing typo to look at the nodes of the cluster remember
we created three nodes of two CPS each and we've got our nodes ready to go here that's in a ready state
we created it seven minutes ago we can sort of see the basics here at the get nodes stage so next up
we need to get our cluster ready to deploy some code to it now we can do this by basically having a
yellow file I happen to have an existing yellow file from previous demonstration I'm going to pull in
the azure web page where this file comes from.
OK so I took this file from the AK s walk through.
Now let's let's break down this Yama file a little bit.
This is basically a settings file and it tells the Cuban 80s where to get the code to deploy into the
cluster.
Now this yellow file happens to have two types of programs.
One is a what's called a back end program and a front end program.
So we can see that there is a service that runs as the back end.
And if I scroll down a little bit.
Another service is the front end.
So two services being deployed into this cluster also within this Yama file it says where it gets the
code from so the back end is actually an instance of reticence.
So reddest is a caching caching program.
And so there is no code it's just reticence or red has an API and the front end must use is in order
to store its results.
And if it go down to the front end program then it's getting the Azure vote front image in the Microsoft
repository.
If we switch over to Docker real quick Docker Hub we can see that the Microsoft Azure vote front is
an image in the docker repository and basically we can use this as an example set a code that we can
push into the container.
OK.
So that's where this is where it's getting the code from there's actually no code in the Yemen it's
just a backend which is a reticent service.
And the front end comes from Docker Hub.
So going to go back to my cloud show and so we're gonna want to deploy this code the way that you do
that is by using cube control just like you would expect the command is apply.
So we want this Azure vote Yama file to be applied to these cluster that we've already connected to.
And so the file name is Azure vote.
I'm going to hit tab the tab auto completes it as your vote minus f this ammo file.
So when I do this it's going to basically push the deployment and the service to these these cluster
nodes.
Okay.
Now if I want to see remember we did the get nodes before and we're not going to see what's actually
happening it's just the nodes are in a ready state.
But if we did get service
we can see that the back end and the front end service is being deployed.
Now the front end service requires an IP address.
So the both of them have private IP addresses that are not accessible from the Internet.
But one of the instances of the front end service does require a public IP address.
And so that actually takes a few minutes to provision an IP address.
Remember it's accessible through Port 80.
So we're gonna give this a few minutes for the IP address to be basically requested and provisioned.
Now we can see that the front end husband provision there is an IP address.
If I opened up my browser and entered this IP address pulled this across then this is the code.
Remember it's from the Docker Hub vote front.
This is the code that's been set.
Now presumably I can vote for cats and dogs and this gets pushed to the reddest cache as the back end.
I can reset it read a script purged and we can vote for dogs again because dogs are the best.
OK.
So pushing code to the cluster is done basically through the command line.
I'm going to point something out to you I'm to minimize this but go to the cluster the overview is actually
fairly simplistic.
We're not getting a lot of insights into the cluster and if we even if we look along the portal we don't
see that there's a lot of metrics and overview.
I mean we can go into Azure monitor I guess but we're not getting what we would expect even for virtual
machines we see more insights into what's happening.
There's a thing called cube Bernardi's dashboard now Clyburn and his dashboard only runs on your local
it doesn't run in cloud show and so you need to basically install the command line do the same thing
that we did in terms of getting the credentials and then we can use the AK case browse command in order
to see the Cuban or these dashboard.
I'm gonna do that in the next video.
