So in less set of videos we took an existing image that exists on the Docker Hub deployed it to a Cuban
in this cluster and we can see that we can continue to vote for dogs in our little voting app.
But now we need to talk about creating our own containers and how do we package up a container and publish
that in a way that we can deploy that to keep it Cuban in its cluster.
So before we start on that there is a prerequisite that we need to have a docker running on our own
computers in order to create these containers.
If you have a Windows 10 professional or enterprise then you can get Docker desktop for Windows.
If you do not have these I have Windows 10 home.
We need to get dog Docker toolbox.
OK.
So for older systems blah blah blah.
So on a download Docker toolbox.
And then we can continue with creating our first container image.
All right.
So we're going to then install Docker toolbox again if you have that right version of Windows.
There's probably some advantages to getting Docker for windows as the page says it uses data virtualization.
It does not require a virtual box to run Docker
so this will create the desktop shortcut and
we can do a bunch of stuff
so running the Quick Start app has a quick start terminal has started to install some stuff and so we're
waiting for Booth to Docker to download and install so we did it.
We've got the docker tool box in this case download it installed now.
It did have a couple of error messages and I had to restart that process but it did did did work.
Now there is a way that we can test this there is a Hello World vert program that we can run.
So Docker run hello world zoom in a little bit on that.
And if I go back to my Docker interactive show I can say doctor run hello world unable to find the image
it downloads it and then it says hello from Docker.
This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.
So we've got our Docker running locally.
Now you might have Docker already and this whole video you could skip but this is how I downloaded and
installed Docker toolbox.
