All right.
So we have presumably you have your doctor installed or you've already had Doctor installed.
What we need to do is we need to get some code that we can then push to a code repository.
So I'm going to use the get clone command and we're just going to use the same as your sample the Voting
app.
But instead we're going to basically clone it.
Get it down to our local environment and I can say C.D. as your voting app.
OK so we've downloaded the voting app to our local computer.
Now you know at Docker we have our doctor compose file and so we can see it contains the instructions
on how to
how to build this as a contained image.
So if I say Docker compose up then we can get this doc or compose the instructions from the doc or compose
file and create them as containers in our local here.
So now it's
pulling down the reticence in terms of the back end
engine x in terms of a web server.
We're gonna let this run for a little bit it seems like it has some work to do and I do want to see
what we're seeing here is an example of the power of containers and docker particularly its goal over
to our Docker compose file and we can see how small it is.
Right.
It's got two services the front and the back.
It's it gives the image where the code comes from the container name and there's a definition of the
ports that these docker containers respond to so very simple Docker compose file and after all of that
we end up with a couple of docker containers working and running.
All right so if I see docker container
container unless we can see that we have two containers with the image of the front and then one of
the image of the back created 58 seconds ago running on on different ports.
So very very cool how we got a working program on our local just by seeing Docker compose up
so we can see that Docker has assigned our Docker runs within a virtual box.
So that virtual box has an IP address.
So this is the virtual box that contains Linux operating system.
And there is an IP address assigned to this.
So Docker dash machine IP default will tell us the IP address if we go to this IP address on my computer
it's 190 to 168 ninety nine one hundred port 80 80 then we have our own local machine with a copy of
this container.
So we downloaded the code and pushed pushed it basically Docker compose up into a container on our local
and by accessing the port the IP address of the machine on our local with the right port then we've
gotten this.
