So let's get into data security within Microsoft Azure.
Now we all know that there's huge benefits to storing our data in the cloud.
You get to only pay for what you use.
It's very easy to scale to larger data solutions without having to go out and purchase hardware and
all of the effort of scaling.
You can replicate your data around the globe for various purposes.
It get you can get access to that data from any Internet connected app if you authorize it.
And it's also got lots of features like tuning and optimizations with tons of benefits to using cloud
based data solutions but the big big warning when it comes to that is the security question.
So once you start opening up your data to be accessible from other devices in other places then you
do not want your data to be falling into the wrong hands into competitors into hackers et cetera.
What can happen to your data.
Well obviously there's people who can read your data without access without authorization.
Your data can be deleted.
Right.
It can be corrupted or maybe the worst of all there could be undetectable modification of your data.
So you know people's debts could be wiped out or any kind of a subtle change to your data that that
you're not able to basically track.
So there are some really big downsides and what does Microsoft Azure offer in terms of data security.
So there are firewall solutions for Azure databases sequel databases etc. You can put storage and other
things behind virtual network service end points so that it restricts access from outside of Azure.
You can put your databases on non-public networks so anything that's accessible to a virtual network
can then be not public.
You can use encryption so data is being stored in encrypted state.
You can use issue to be s and SSL to transfer data and encrypted methods.
There are ways of having your access keys and your certificates stored in a secure manner and you can
even create special identities for your applications and your virtual machines so that they're running
in a very restricted profile.
I mean that's just a small subset of what you can do in this section we're going to talk about data
security and we're particularly going to talk about the encryption options for databases for storage.
We're in talk about Azure key vault and we're going to talk about something called Azure Active Directory
managed service identity and so that's coming up in the next set of videos.
