Now one of the requirements of the seventy five three five exams says you need to understand how to
do with arm templates.
When you have passwords and secrets that need to be within the arm template so you know this hopefully
arm templates are Jason files which means they're plaintext.
And anyone who can get access to the Jason FAQ can then read it.
There's no real way to keep a secret inside of a Jason File.
So the Jays the arm template is a declarative file instead of a script so you don't have code within
Jason files so much you have declarations right.
So how do you provide the admin password in an arm template without anyone knowing what that password
is while you store the password in the key vault as a secret.
Here's an example a small fragment of a template.
Jason File the the template Jason File has a parameter section and we're basically going to say the
password is not of type String but it's a type of secure string.
So it's not going to be readable by normal manners within the parameter file.
So arm templates have both template files and parameter files.
So within the premier file the password is not a value.
So the admin log in value is example admin but the admin password is actually a reference to the Azure
key vault and within the key vault all secrets have a unique you are L essentially zero a universal
identifier and so we can put the vault reference name in there and we can put the secret name in there.
Okay.
And so it's going to go to the it's going to go to the key vault to get the example secret.
And this example secret in this case is the password.
So you'll see that the template author did not have access to the actual password.
Nobody who has access to this file and a dev ops person or a developer will have access to the actual
secret because within Azraq treachery their accounts don't have access of the secret but the and the
account that runs this would have access.
So as we saw we can access secrets from the key vault in that way.
