Now what about applications.
So as developers or as your development team they need to have access to API eyes or two passwords or
to keep to keys security keys.
But you don't want that stuff embedded in your code.
You do not want your web configure application config or even the C sharp code itself to have secrets
that could potentially be exposed that could get into get hub that could when a employee leaves they
take a copy of the code with them.
There's less away secrets can be exposed.
So applications can also access the key vault.
Now the keyboard can contain keys and secrets.
Those are the two types of things you can store in the keyboard.
So a cryptic key in this case is a cryptic graphic key.
Right it's a public private key.
These are complex things are going to talk about that in the next video.
But in this video we're talking about secrets and we're talking about passwords.
We're talking about api keys that allow you to access resources authorization tokens et cetera.
They can be whatever text that you want up to 25 kilobytes.
So the secrets cannot be huge but they can be fairly large.
So one consideration or recommendations that Microsoft has is if the secret is such a big secret then
you may want to consider encrypting the secret in some way before you store it in the keyboard because
the secret gets passed into the keyboard unencrypted.
And but you use role based authentication to protect that secret.
So only a very few people have access to it.
But if you are working in such an environment that it's suit that important you may want to encrypt
the secret before you put it in the keyboard key vault has a concept of versioning.
And so you can put multiple versions of a secret they each have their own unique U.R.L..
Here's an example of a you U.R.L. or a format of one you've got your key vault name dot vault on Azure
dot net the object type is either keys or secrets the object name you gave an object to name and then
the version is either the current version or some previous version.
So every secret and every version can have its own you are out.
So what you do is you take your secret you put it into the vault you give it a name you do have options
when it comes to attributes.
So there's the name and the value.
That's of course required and if you want you can assign an expiry date to a secret or what's called
a not before date which is a start and the end dates of those secrets.
You can set it whether it's enabled or disabled and you can the Azure is going to add dates to it when
it's created when it's updated etc..
So those are the attributes of a secret.
Now it's important to know that Microsoft does not restrict you from reading a secret after it's expired
or before it's ready to you know to be released so as long as the secrets enabled the expiry date and
the not before date are basically informational for your application.
So you're going to look for the secret that's not expired and is greater than the not before date but
the Azure doesn't enforce that upon you.
You can still read those secrets if you have the oral so if then the application code you basically
access a secret by the name.
Again we talked about what secrets are good for you can have your keys your user I.D. and passwords
something that sometimes changes and so if you want to exploit you know stored these things outside
the app and not have to redeploy the app every time let's say you have a password that changes every
week.
Well do you want to rate redeploy your app every week or do you want it just stored in the key vault
and have the key have the application to access the latest version of the secret and then you can just
modify the key vote because you can give applications access selectively.
You can be very limited to what secrets they have access to.
So you can see I want expose this one secret but not this other secret.
And there is a list commands.
So applications can go in the list.
The secrets that they have access to if that helps with your coding.
