So in this video, we're going to talk about encryption of the operating system, primary disk.
Now pay attention to this video because this information has changed in the past year.
If you've watched a previous version of this course or if you're familiar with virtual machines, you're
just using this video for some review, then pay attention to what's changed here.
Now I'm in the marketplace creating a new virtual machine.
This is a Windows 2000 19 virtual machine.
I've chosen a relatively small desk, one CPU.
There's only one CPU and three gigabytes of memory here.
But when I go to the disks tab, you can see here that the encryption at rest is the default encryption
type.
So this is basically a new dropdown and we can see that it's going to attempt to encrypt the operating
system and temporary disk by default.
Now, there are some limitations for this.
So to pull in the docs here, but for Windows operating systems, it does require a certain type of
operating system.
It requires a virtual machine with least two gigabytes of memory.
It's not available for the L series VMS.
It's not available on a series basic.
So there's a couple of VM types that are not available.
So keep an eye out for that.
But if you choose most of the virtual machines, you're going to get disk encryption by default.
Now, what does that mean?
My Windows has a technology called Bit Locker and Bit Locker encrypts the contents of the disk, and
that means if someone was able to get an image of the disk, they would not be able to decrypt the image
and get the data inside of the virtual machine without the key.
This is not true for an unencrypted disk, so you no longer have to manually encrypt your virtual machines.
We can choose to encrypt it using the platform key, which is the default, or we can insist in us managing
the.
Now us managing the key uses as your key vault.
And we'll talk about that later in this course.
There is a way of managing keys in what's called a key vault.
We're not going to talk about that right now.
Let Azure manage the key.
Now, if I go and create the virtual machine, then we're going to have an encrypted disk by default.
It's important to note that if we were to create a data disk and that data disk also has encrypted,
turned on by default, we can use the platform, manage key or the custom manage key.
Note that for either of the data disk or the operating system disk, you don't have the option of creating
it unencrypted.
So that is one important part of encryption.
I won't go ahead and create it, but if I was to create this virtual machine, it would have an encrypted
disk by default, as do all virtual machines that are created.
