<v Instructor>So in this video,</v>
we're going to take care of the next problem,
which is how slow this machine has been acting.
Currently, it's a Standard DS1 v2,
which is very underpowered at one CPU
and 3.5 gigabytes of memory.
So let's resize this machine.
You do that under Settings, under the Size menu item.
Click on it and we can see the most popular settings
are being displayed to me.
The one I'm currently running is DS1_v2.
And there are over 200 different options.
So I'm going to click See all sizes.
So there's the 200.
Now, this is where the filters might come in handy.
So I'm going to say I kind of know,
I'm currently running at a one CPU.
I would like to run a four-CPU machine.
Now, that might be overpowered for this teaching purpose
but this is just a demonstration of how easy it is.
So to go from a one CPU to four CPU.
All right, so now we're down to 34 out of the 200
that have four CPUs.
That's great.
We can see there's a variety of RAM availability,
from seven gig up to 16, 28, 32.
So if I really want a RAM memory overpowered machine,
I can go from my current one up to a 32-gigabyte,
I'm going to say monster,
but it may not be a monster to you.
So we have lots of options.
So if I scroll down a bit,
I can see there are four options at the bottom
that are grayed out.
And by hovering my mouse over this i,
it tells you size not available
and because of my location, which is East US2,
the D4_v4 machine is not currently available.
And so if I needed that machine,
I could have to change the location to another location.
Otherwise, I'm just going to have to do with ones
that are available.
So now, we're at the DS1, I think I want to go
to a DS4-type machine.
So we have the D, I can actually type here, DS3 actually.
So we are a DS1_v2.
We want to go two sizes up, which is from one CPU
to two CPU to four CPU.
So it's a DS3 machine.
And that'll bring us to 14 gigabytes of RAM.
We can scroll all the way to the right here
and we can see that it's a $430 a month machine.
That is about 12 or $13 a day
and about 50 cents an hour
and so I basically would want to stop this machine
when I'm not using it
and would want to delete it when I'm done with it.
Now, because I am running the DS machine currently,
the disk is currently a premium disk.
The S in DS stands for Solid State.
And so in fact, I could not upgrade
to a machine that did not support premium disk.
I could even add a filter saying premium disk supported
as basically a required element here.
So I'm pretty happy with my DS3 choice,
even though I can't get to D4s.
I'm going to say Resize.
Now, we can see, it's going to go off
and it's going to restart my virtual machine
under a new instance.
And so even I'm running RDP currently.
It's going to get disconnected
because this machine is actually being re-instantiated
into a new home.
Now, it says successful.
That only took less than a minute.
We can go back to Overview
and we can see that we're running the DS3 machine.
And so now, if I was to connect to RDP,
I should have a lot more pleasant experience,
shall we say, on how quick it is to log in
because the machine is more powerful.
So we can see now after restarting it,
we're down to 4%, 3% CPU.
This machine obviously can handle a lot more.
It's got 14 gigabytes of memory,
the CPU, we've said it's got four cores,
four virtual processors waiting
to stand by and do my tasks.
So we've now seen
that we can upgrade how easy it is
to upgrade this machine.
Now, the other thing that we could say
is that it is just as easy to downgrade.
So if I said I don't need a four-CPU machine,
let's say I want to get a DS2,
I could just as easily go over here
and resize it downward
and that would cut my costs quite a bit
and so when we get into cost optimization,
certainly finding the right size
for your virtual machines is going to be a big factor.
If you can take a machine
and make it half as powerful
and still get your work done,
then you're saving half the price.
