<v ->Now that we've understood that,</v>
we can talk about availability zones.
Remember, availability zones are not available
in every region.
So I would have to switch over to, for instance,
an East US region.
And then I can switch over to availability zone redundancy.
Availability zone effectively allows you
to place the virtual machine in a specific data center.
And you can see you get a choice
between one, two and three.
This is East US, and so I don't know
where physically the mailing address of data center one is,
but Azure has given us these labels
and I can place this virtual machine
in availability zone one and create it.
And then I can create the other virtual machine
in availability zone two
and maybe a third virtual machine
in availability zone three.
So I am effectively physically placing
these availability zones in different buildings
within the region.
So these are data centers,
and they might be on the same property effectively,
but they are as separated out as they can be
in terms of running in different buildings,
with different power supplies,
different power entering the building,
different internet access, et cetera.
So by placing them yourself into availability zones
between one, two and three,
then you are basically increasing the chance
that they are physically separated
and that nothing could affect both of them
at the same time.
And so, as we saw from the SLA,
your SLA goes from
for an Azure availability set
to 99.99 if you're using the availability zone method.
So this is how you deal with availability in Azure.
Of course, you do need to place a load balancer
or an application gateway in front of these
in order to equally distribute the traffic between them.
But you can have your application running on two or more VMs
and ensure that they're almost always available 99.99%
of the time for your customers to use.
