One thing you might not think about when it comes to hosting virtual machines in the cloud is the concept
of the dedicated host.
Now a dedicated host is exactly as it sounds.
It's a dedicated physical server that is for you and you alone to host your virtual machines for other
Windows or Linux.
So as you might expect, it can be a bit pricey or on the Azure pricing page.
And I scroll down a little bit and you can get a DSV three type machine that can host up to 64 virtual
CPUs and 256 gigabytes of RAM.
And you're paying as you go twenty five hundred dollars per month.
And if you can get this on a reservation, you can get that less than a thousand dollars a month.
Now, you can once you've got the syndicated host, you can run as many virtual machines as you can
fit into here.
So let's say you've got this machine and it's got 64 available VCP use you're looking for to C.P.U virtual
machines.
And so you can have 32 to C.P.U virtual machines running on the server for this price.
And so in the Azure portal in the marketplace, you can search for dedicated hosts, it create you're
presented with a wizard interface, which is a lot simpler than a typical virtual machine.
You're going to be asked to create a put your resource in a resource group.
You do have to give it a name.
In a location.
You will have to create a host group for this, for those virtual machines to live in the same host
group.
You can optionally specify an availability zone, so if you do want to do the availability zone type
thing, you are going to be restricting your VMS to a single availability zone and choosing how many
fault domain.
So this is like the availability set concept where by default there's two falta means.
Now, we saw on the pricing page we do have options like DSV three.
This particular account that I'm using has some limitations on the number of CPUs, and so that's understandable,
but this particular choice is going to need 76 a CPUs for me to get this reservation automatically replace
host on failure.
That's pretty self-explanatory.
If the server was to die, should we speed up another one and get another one going?
Can we reuse our server licenses, reuse our SQL Server licenses in E.A.?
And if I click view and create if I did have the CPU's on this account, then we could create a dedicated
host.
And so at that point you're creating virtual machines and in the virtual machine creation, you can
choose your dedicated host.
So here's the create a virtual machine wizard on the advanced tab.
And we can see here that we can choose a host group if we had one and we could basically get this virtual
machine created on our existing hardware that we're already paying for.
So it is possible to get hardware in the cloud which your company and you alone have access to.
Now, technically, it shouldn't grant you any more security because virtual machines to have that kind
of firewall that restricts you from being able to see other virtual machines or affect other virtual
machines.
But some companies do have this that they want their own hardware.
And, you know, that would be a showstopper for them getting into the cloud and so being able to say,
yeah, we can do dedicated hosts so that we know that no other client can possibly affect us other than
ourselves is a potential option.
Although, again, you're going to have to pay for that.
