A SNH key in order to log into it using a Secich.
Now, this is absolutely a terrible idea, but instead of generating a key on my own machine, I'm going
to use an online service to generate it.
Like I said, if you are a security conscious person, this is something I would not necessarily recommend.
OK, so here is a 2048 bit SS key.
We do copy the public key into here.
We do need to store the private key so that we can log into this machine using cessations.
So I'm going to copy this into my clipboard and store this to my machine using notepad.
And the rest is going to be very similar to creating a virtual machine where we could have data disk
if we want to.
We could accept a existing virtual network or create a new virtual network.
The real trick here is if we're going to use an existing load balancer or we're going to have the built
in load balancer of the virtual machine scales, it sets me up with a default instance, kind of two,
which means to virtual machines.
The scaling policy is not automated at this point.
It's a manual scaling policy.
I could certainly create a custom scaling policy between, let's say, two and four with CPU thresholds.
Seventy five percent on the up end or twenty five percent on the lower end and.
Make sure there's no the diagnostics, as usual.
Now, there is the concept of a health and a point so we could have some type of oral or application
running on the servers that would indicate whether they're in healthy condition or not.
So just by having HTP checking Port 80 at the root to make sure it's responding would be one type of
health monitor.
And again, you know, this would be a virtual machine skill set with some basic rules.
It's definitely one way to take advantage of Microsoft's built in a scaling technology of scaling for
skill sets as opposed to doing it yourself.
Now, you could do this yourself.
You could use automation to do scaling.
You could put virtual machines behind a load, balancer yourself and use automation to create new virtual
machines when the CPU reached a certain level.
But this is all provided for you, which is pretty cool.
