So next up we're going to talk about another way of storing data with an Azure and that is through a
proper database.
I go into the marketplace and I go under databases we can see that there's a number of options that
Microsoft is offering to us.
Now the one you might be most familiar with is SQL server running within Windows.
So this is a virtual machine just as if you had a computer next to you with SQL Server 2017 enterprise
installed.
There's many different flavors of SQL Server.
You can also bring your own license if you have a single server license and save some money that way.
But basically having single server running in a virtual machine is perhaps the most similar situation
you have to SQL server running in your own environment.
So if you're going to do a migration from the SQL server running in your data center to Microsoft Azure
this would be the simplest approach right.
Just getting it up getting a SQL server running in a virtual machine and then you do the data migration
and you will have almost the exact same situation you were before just running with a different server.
Now that might not be the best approach and it's certainly not the cheapest approach but it is perhaps
the the most familiar to you if if that's where you come from.
The version that Microsoft wants you to really consider is called Azure sequel database.
Now Azure sequel database is a database as a service solution.
It basically looks and acts very much like SQL Server.
There's a high high percentage of compatibility.
So if you have a database that's running in single server within your data center getting that migrated
into SQL database for 95 plus percent of you is going to be basically no trouble at all you're not using
any of the advanced features that SQL database don't doesn't support.
And so you're just able to migrate your data point your application to the sequel database and move
on with your life.
Now cycle database is a lot cheaper option.
There are different pricing options and we'll go over them in a second but it actually does save you
money compared to a virtual machine and all the costs associated with that.
So when you're looking at this from an exam perspective even from a real life perspective you really
should look at the single database as being the best solution for a lot of the situations out there
and really the only situation that you need SQL Server and a virtual machine for is something where
you're like tuning the settings within a hair of its life or you're really trying to squeeze out the
extra performance on the CPSU and you've got that memory dialed into just the perfect amount.
If you really do need to configure the hardware in the settings to that degree then you might going
to continue on with that there are also some advanced features with correlation and the way that it
does full text indexing and things like that that SQL Server a single database doesn't necessarily support.
Now Microsoft also provides a managed version of this sequel database so if we go through the single
database route you're going to do all the setup you're going to migrate the data and you're basically
responsible for managing the performance.
If the database you need more performance out of it moving to the higher plan migrating between plans
is super simple and we're going to look at that as well but the managed instance basically lets you
two migrate the data and let Microsoft take care of the scaling of it etc..
We also have data warehouse for those data warehouse and reporting situations data warehouse is designed
to support you know tons and tons of data the size of the data you're going to use I mean like a data
lake to to report into a data warehouse a database pool is part of a single database will cover that.
Now besides the sequel server compatibility version which is called Azure sequel database you'll see
that there are three other databases that Azure provides that are in the same fashion with Azure SQL
database but you can have my sequel database as a service post sequel as a service and now I think this
is in preview or perhaps it's available.
Maria D.B. as a service so if you're relying on any of these database types for your application today
and you want to migrate into Azure other than having a virtual machine with these software's installed
I think my cycle is also available as a web app.
You can have them as them as a database as a service software as a service type situation type product
here.
So in this section we're gonna go through setting up Azure single database we're going to create our
first database server and then the database inside of that and we'll do something similar we've done
with Cosmos D.B. and the tabled storage in which we're going to start programming a little bit against
it to show how compatible it is the commands for dealing with this are the same idea don't that you've
been using up till now.
So we'll see we'll start on with the coding but it won't be anything that you hopefully haven't seen
before in other situations.
So in this section we'll talk about Azure cycle database as a place to store structured data using relational
databases.
