Now we go back to visual studio we're going to basically in my case I'm going to create this in the
same solution that has our table storage option and our Cosmo's DP option.
I'm going to create this for SQL db.
Now the the option the framework for SQL DP is system dot data SQL client.
And we're going to start off with a pretty blank program except we copy the employee entity from the
cosmos TB tab so the same first name last name option is going to be here.
Now you know hopefully you know because this is a programming exam after all and connecting to a database
is a fairly common programming task.
We're going to basically need a connection string in order to create a connection with a sequel server
that connection string is found in our SQL database under connection strings settings.
So it gives us many programming languages here we can just copy this you'll notice it has space for
your username and your password.
But this is what we.
This is the connections strain we're going to use in our program.
OK.
So I haven't yet filled in the.
Your username your password bit but I will now using a little dot net to connect to a database is done
through a circle connection and SQL commands so I can create the connection with a single connection
passing the connection string and then if I want to run commands against this I can see SQL command
and it requires some type of command and a link to that sacral connection.
So we can say something and then the connection would go there.
In this case our command could be something like insert EMPLOYEE
We've got first name Guy capitalized it last name values and we'll do this as parameters right.
So first name last name.
So very simple command that we can use for our SQL command.
Now of course we haven't created the entity yet so we can see employee entity employee
new employee entity where employee first name is John.
Employee last name equals DOE.
We have our object here.
And it doesn't like that
and then what we need to do is basically go to the parameter settings for the command say ad with value
and then we're looking for first name
and then we can pass an employee first name.
There's a very simplistic example I admit but then last name we can pass in the last name.
We have to open the connection so open a link to our database.
We want to
we want to execute this non query so there's no results that we're expecting from this is just an insert
and
we can basically assume that that worked closed the connection and have a double check that that's actually
inserted data into our database.
So I updated the connection string with my username and password.
I'm going to say build build succeeded then I should be able to say start and the program started ran.
Now if we go to our SQL Server Management studio and refreshed this we can see our employee table.
And if I said select a thousand rows
see how quick this is it returns me one row.
John Doe.
So we just inserted this and we're able to see that the data is being returned.
So again this should be very standard in terms of database programming working with SQL Server in your
local.
This time it's SQL database running in the cloud.
Like I said there are subtle subtle differences between the two.
But ninety five percent plus of all applications should should be able to just be transported by changing
the connection string.
OK so that's it.
We've got our SQL database running it's another option for working with data in the cloud.
