<v Instructor>So what I'm going to do here</v>
is I'm going to pretend like we just had this idea
that we need a virtual machine,
we need a Windows server for some project.
And so let's see how long it actually takes
from the idea to getting one.
So I hit the stopwatch start.
Now I'm not going to basically teach you
or talk about exactly what I'm doing here.
We're just going to pretend like we just had this idea.
So I'm going to call this new idea.
In this course, we're obviously going to get
into how to create a virtual machine
and all the wonderful stuff around that.
I'm going to pick a bit of a bigger machine
so we're going to get the D4 machine.
We'll get a Windows 2016,
to give it the administrator user ID and password.
I'm going to want to RDP into that box.
I'm going to skip all the other options.
It's offering me this machine at 16 cents Canadian per hour.
And if I just click create.
So just to get to the point
where I've ordered the machine,
a minute and 15 seconds here.
A minute and 20 seconds from the idea
to go and make me a machine.
Let's see how long it takes
for Azure to actually make it.
And I should say, one of the cool features here
is we can actually watch it in progress.
So creating a virtual machine
is not just, oh we just need a machine.
We also need a network, we need an IP address,
security group, and right now we're getting storage created.
So that's all the things that are involved in creating a VM.
All right, so right around the five minute mark,
it says my deployment is complete.
I can now sort of open it up and see that this has
in fact done its work.
Going to the resource within the portal,
I'm going to minimize the menu here,
we can see that we have a virtual machine running.
It's given me a public IP address.
And so theoretically I can use RDP,
the Windows Remote Desktop Protocol,
to get access to this machine using this IP address
and the ID and password that I gave it.
So let's go back to the stopwatch here.
So five minutes into it and we have a machine for use.
Now as you know, the first time that you run a machine,
it takes a few seconds to start.
So let's go into the connect button,
click the RDP file, the RDP file comes to my local,
I click connect.
Remember, I created a specific account for this.
I set this when I created the VM.
I'm going to say okay.
I have to accept this certificate.
And now RDP has started.
Now it's going to take a minute or two
for Windows to configure itself.
And I'm going to create a profile for myself,
and we have to configure this
for a particular role, et cetera.
The server is just going to be empty.
It's just as if you installed a brand new version of Windows
on a server that you have direct access to.
So at this point, it's not really useful
until I make it do something.
But the point is, within six minutes
of deciding that I wanted a virtual machine,
I am here looking at the home screen
of this brand new machine.
And it's, in a second, going to pop up with the,
do you want your PC to be discoverable?
Say no.
It's going to pop up with the role manager here
and we can decide this is an IS machine
or it's a file server or some other purpose for it.
But basically this is just a demo
of how quickly you can decide
that you decide you want resources.
