<v Instructor>Now I briefly touched on this earlier</v>
but basically I'm only going to be charged for usage here.
So this machine is currently running and it started off
less than 10 minutes ago at this point.
I could hit the stop button at this point
and Windows and Azure would shut down the instance
and make it, release the IP address,
and make it no longer accessible to me
but then I could start it up again
and it will restart.
So, Azure is basically going to only charge me
for the seconds, or in this case,
maybe two or three minutes that the instance
was actually created and running.
So it's actually fairly easy to clean this whole thing up.
Let's go into the resource group
and we can see there are seven resources
that were created as a result of my request,
including the virtual hard disk,
the C Drive essentially, network interface card storage
for the diagnostics, IP address and stuff.
Well, let's say this idea,
I did spend a couple hours on it.
I was like "Okay well, we proved that that's a viable idea
but we're done with this machine for now."
I can quickly delete the resource group,
the entire set of it
and just as soon as we had the idea,
within two or three minutes,
all charges will stop, all the resources will get cleaned up
and we will have no lingering cost associated with this.
So deleting and stopping the resource is just as easy
as it was to create it.
So, in fact the power here is
there's no contract.
I didn't sign a three year deal to get that machine
and no contact. I didn't have to call anybody,
I didn't have to fill out a form
and wait for somebody to call me back.
I didn't even have to file a ticket.
I just went and created a resource, used it,
and deleted it, and no other human
other than the bunch of you that are watching this video,
nobody else in the world knows that I did this.
Let's talk about cost for a second.
So not only is it the flexibility
of creating these machines, we're literally talking about
pennies per hour at this level
so I chose this from the pricing table but
a D-level machine, D2 with two CPUs
and eight gigabits of RAM
is 3.7 cents per hour and that includes
This is a Linux machine so there's no operating system cost
and in this particular case, we did need to
We'll talk about reserved instances later in this course
for cost saving purposes but
this is an option of what's available out there.
I would pay 10 cents an hour.
So if I just created a machine like this,
it's 10 cents an hour charged by the minute
and so 10 cents an hour charged by the minute
really is about 1/3 of a cent per minute,
something like that
and we used that machine just now for about four minutes
and so maybe I just had about a 1.2 cents of cost
for what I just demonstrated to you.
Now, I've been talking about virtual machines
and that's certainly how AWS and then Azure started
in that infrastructure as a service space
but the innovation has not stopped
and basically, there are so many new ways
of executing your code in the cloud.
You don't need to have a Windows or a Linux server
and then do all of the installations
and do the deployments manually
and all of this, the old days stuff.
So now we have all these different computing services.
So we talked about virtual machines.
We have operating system choices.
Azure has something called web apps
which you just zip up your code, package it,
configurations and send it up to Azure
and they will run it.
You don't have control over the hardware.
You can choose performance tiers based on certain values
but you don't get to choose two CPUs,
eight gigabits of RAM, all this stuff.
It's not a server model.
And then to go, what they've been calling server lists
or functions as a service, you can actually just
create your code right in the browser.
You go into the portal, we'll demonstrate that
at some point in this course,
and write some lines of code, hit save.
And from that point forward, Azure will execute your code
whenever it's triggered.
So, functions are something that's good for
not even worrying about development on your machine.
It's just a small piece of code.
Logic apps, these are work flow apps.
It very much reminds me of Windows workflow services
or SQL server integration services
ad those types of no code models,
boxes and lines, drag and drop, connect things together,
events that fire, trigger something else, et cetera.
There's also service fabric.
This is not a super popular way of doing coding
but if you want to break your big monolithic applications
into dozens of small little services,
Azure has some abilities to automatically manage, heal,
monitoring or reporting and all that wonderful stuff
onto these microservices and scaling.
Containers are taking over the world.
Microsoft has really embraced containers in a big way.
Used to be Azure container services
and they moved to the Kubernetes standard
as Azure Kubernetes Services, AKS
but it's not just having nodes and clusters
and orchestrators. You can also have containers in web apps.
You can have containers in service fabric.
You can have container instances which just take,
we'll do a demo in a second,
but we can get code running in a container
in literally seconds.
I demonstrated a virtual machine,
that took about eight minutes to get started.
If you want to beat that time,
deploy code into a brand new container
and it can be done very quickly.
We even have batching services
where you've got jobs that have got
millions of parallel tasks
and we can scale up some machines in that kind of metaphor.
That's just the compute.
That's just the executing code in the cloud elements.
The stuff that the cloud can do
goes way beyond just compute.
We're talking about databases.
Many, many different types of databases
for all the different needs out there.
We're talking about not even data but storage, right?
Files and backup files and websites and things like that.
Networking services include some security in there
like firewalls and things like that, load bouncers.
The machine learning is a big growth path
and Microsoft has these cognitive services that they offer
if you want text to speech, and speech to text,
and image recognition and all of these wonderful things,
chat bots. That's all in the machine learning category.
Event hubs and queues, depending on your
application communication style.
Then on the right, we've got everything
from identity and security elements, analytics,
blockchain, if that's something that excites you.
So all of these services are things that
you can go into the cloud today and rent by the hour,
by the event, by the execution, et cetera.
So, really cheap, relatively cheap services
that you can't even duplicate this
in your own data center without a lot of custom code,
a lot of installations and stuff like that.
So talking about containers, let's quickly
create a container and show you how quickly that can go.
