<v Instructor>So let's have a look</v>
at how Azure has evolved over the years.
Believe it or not,
Azure is more than 10 years old.
It was released in February 2010 as Windows Azure,
and they rebranded it to Microsoft Azure, 2014.
Now, there's currently available
in 60 plus regions around the world.
But this number is always changing,
it's kind of hard to keep up.
They've got more locations around the world
than any other cloud provider, even more than AWS does.
They are in India, UAE, South Africa
and some really great places.
So here's a the latest map.
But again, this does change,
so don't expect this to be the same
even a few months from now.
But there are literally 60 places that you can choose from.
Now, I say 60 that you can choose from,
but the truth is,
not all of them are available to all customers.
We do need to differentiate
between what's called the public cloud,
what are the U.S. government clouds,
and there's three of them,
there's even a China cloud,
and there's other regions in the world
that have restrictions.
So let's start off by defining what the public cloud is.
Now, the public cloud
is generally the cloud that we think of.
It is the one that you can sign up for,
you can go to azure.microsoft.com
with your credit card,
sign up for it or connect with your enterprise RAP
and get some credits, et cetera.
There are out of those 60 regions,
there are about 28, or maybe more now
regions that you can create in.
The rest of them are going to be,
again, government and restricted regions.
There are regions that have restrictions.
Not every region has all this exact same resources.
So if you have very specialized needs,
very specialized hardware,
then you may be restricted to even fewer regions.
Generally, Microsoft has evolved
so that data stays within a national boundary.
And they've used to refer to this as geos.
What that means is that,
if you're an American company
and you are storing your data inside of the Azure Cloud,
they do keep your data inside of America.
They're not pushing that around unless you set that up,
as geo-redundant storage,
and that would be a setting that you would set.
But the Canadian data center stores Canadian data,
France data stores French data, et cetera.
A lot of that has to do with government regulations.
Now, I did mention that there is a U.S. government cloud.
Basically, anyone who's got an affiliation
with the U.S. government,
whether you were the federal government,
the state government,
any kind of local government,
you can sign up for the U.S. government cloud.
It is completely separate from the Azure public cloud.
So you cannot have resources in both
that are physically connected to each other.
Think of them as being two completely different products.
And even within the U.S. government cloud,
there's not only the government cloud,
but there is the Department of Defense,
and then there's also a secret cloud,
I suppose that's for the spies.
Now, that public cloud is opposed
to what is called a private cloud.
Now, private cloud is servers that you own
or servers that you can control,
or basically not open to anyone.
So there's a product called Azure Stack,
you can get cloud computing-like software
installed in your own data center
but it's running on your own hardware,
and only your employees would have authorization to use it,
that would be like a corporate cloud.
So private cloud is anything where
it is just not open to the public,
it's for a specific small group of people.
A third type of cloud is called a hybrid cloud.
And that is basically a mixture
of what you might call on-premises or private hardware
with public cloud.
And so you may be you have your data
stored inside your private cloud,
but your applications are running in the public cloud,
or you have your applications running in the private cloud,
but there's a backup hot and ready to go in the public cloud
in case something was to go wrong.
The cloud is great for storing data and for databases,
and so there is a way of extending your SQL Server
so that it's using your private SQL Server
and pushing data that is not necessarily required
out to the public cloud, et cetera.
