<v Instructor>Now I do want to just spend another moment</v>
talking about Microsoft's global network here.
So we just talked about the 54 regions
and how all of these things
are available to you in the public cloud
to be able to create computing resources
anywhere you want in the world effectively for pennies.
But how is Microsoft able to do this?
Well, over the years they've invested
billions and billions of dollars
in these buildings and all these computers
and the wiring and all that stuff.
Here's a picture, a bit of a slideshow moment here,
but here's a picture of a data center in Amsterdam.
This is a Microsoft data center in Western Europe here.
And you can see all the cooling units on top of it.
So inside there are a couple of floors of servers.
You go into it, this is in Wyoming here.
But you go into it, it's a warehouse just full of servers.
And Microsoft has standardized all this hardware
and so whenever they're installing servers,
in brand new buildings, brand new data centers,
they know what they're doing.
They're building it based on this plan.
I saw this picture in my searches here
of Microsoft Azure servers
that are designed to run on the ocean floor.
So this off the coast of Scotland.
They put some servers into this tube
and they dip it into the water,
plug in electricity and networking.
Now the advantage of this type of thing
is that it's a sealed container.
There's no dust getting in there.
There's no contaminants of any kind.
There's no lights inside.
And so, those machines can actually just run.
There should be no real hardware failures.
There's nothing that can get in there
that can damage the hardware.
They're supposed to be more durable
than a regular data center
where people are coming and going.
The other thing too is they can take advantage of
the water, the cold water for cooling purposes.
So we don't need to run all those air conditioners
on top of a building.
And that costs money and has cold water all around it.
And so Microsoft is sort of innovating
on these types of data centers.
Now the other thing is not just
the buildings and the servers,
but they've got their own fiber.
And so this is not running on the public internet.
Actually, Microsoft said I think it's the largest
or the second largest private network in the world.
So these lines all represent fiber capacity that,
as you can see on the west all through North America,
under the Pacific Ocean, under the Atlantic Ocean,
all around Africa, all around Europe, and through Asia.
And so these are high-speed, multi-terabyte,
multi-petabyte traffics
that can travel over the world.
And so when Microsoft is dealing
between their North American data centers
and their European data centers,
they're running on their own network.
Not only of course is it costing them nothing to do that,
but it's protected from the travels of AT&amp;T
and other providers who are running the public internet.
So they're investing in this in many different ways
that we don't get to see effectively.
One of the things that I saw was they connect
Spain and Virginia for their data centers.
Most trans-Atlantic connections
are between the UK and New York, right?
So they're even protecting regional things
in a slightly different way than you would think.
