
<v Narrator>Okay, so just a quick lecture on Amazon EMR,</v>
just so you get an overview of it.
EMR stands for Elastic MapReduce,
and MapReduce is basically a big data term.
So, EMR helps creating Hadoop clusters,
which is used for big data.
And, big data is used to basically analyze
and process a lot of data.
So, we are talking, you know, petabytes
or terabytes, like a lot of data.
And so, these clusters that you can create through EMR,
they can be made of hundreds of EC2 instances.
And, the benefit of EMR is that EMR knows how to coordinate
and configure all these instances to work together
so you don't have to worry about setting up a Hadoop cluster
which is something that's actually quite hard to do.
EMR does it for you, and you can just use all the engines,
including Spark, HBase, Presto, and Flink
to analyze your data and process it.
So the really cool thing about EMR is that yes,
it provisions everything and it configures everything.
And above it, it can be cost conscious, so there's
auto-scaling that works with EMR.
And, it's integrated with Spot Instances, so that means
if you want to pay a lower price point for your
big data analysis, you can use Spot Instances.
So, use cases for EMR, data processing, machine learning,
web indexing, and big data, all this kind of stuff.
So, let's just see how we could create an EMR cluster,
but we won't actually create it,
but it will give you an idea of all the options.
So, EMR will give us in the niche Hadoop framework,
and so as you can see, we create cluster, then we upload
some data, maybe coming from S3.
Then we create all the information to input it,
and then we can monitor the health of our cluster
and see how the processing is going.
And, we can retrieve the output of our processing in S3.
So, if you wanted to go create a cluster,
you would name your cluster, you
would say where you want logging to be.
You would want to launch the mode either in a cluster
that's long running thing or just step execution,
which is when you want to do an analysis
and then shut down the cluster.
Then you have to select the release of EMR you want
so there's a lot of it, and each release comes
with different sets of technologies.
Then we scroll down, we specify the instance type
for our EMR cluster, and how many instances we want.
So three right now, but you can
go up to, say 100 if you wanted to.
Then they ask such access if you wanted to provide
a key pair, some permissions, and then you would click
on create cluster, and there you go, you have cluster
with all the technologies that are specified here.
So you can do your analysis and so on.
So that's it, just a high-level overview
but if you see Hadoop, if you see Spark,
if you see Big Data processing, think EMR and that will
all be, all you need for the exam, alright?
So that's it, I will see you in the next lecture.