Now, the last major section of this exam says to implement and manage data platforms and is worth 10
to 15 percent of the total score on the azy three or three exam, there's only really two or maybe two
and a half data platforms that we're talking about.
One of them is the Azure SQL database, which is the relational database for the cloud and the other
on the No.
SQL side is Cosmos DB and to a lesser extent, storage account tables.
And so we're going to talk about those three things in this section of the course.
First up, going to we talking about no SQL databases.
Now, the concept of no sequel gets misunderstood sometimes because of the the name of it, first of
all, it just doesn't stand for no sequel as in none.
It's actually not only sequel.
So we'll see when we get into Cosmos DB that there are sequel options and you might think, oh, I thought
there was no sequel, it's not no sequel.
It's not only sequel.
Now, the storage account is one of the cheapest ways to store data in Azure.
We dealt with storage accounts earlier in this course and we actually did, to a lesser extent, talk
about tables.
We were mostly talking about blobs and containers.
But if I was to create a new storage account, we're just going to follow the same the same way we covered
earlier in this course, creating a brand new storage account.
We do give it a name.
It's already taken.
OK, give it a two and a resource group which is going to choose all the defaults.
Hot axis tier general purpose V two.
We're not going to do anything specific in terms of networking, not turn on any kind of soft deletes
or versioning because we're not dealing with blobs right now.
We're going to leave all of the defaults and just go to review and create.
OK, so when you have a storage account, there are four types of data that you can store in it.
There is the blob storage, which are in a container metaphor, so let's go into here, we can see blob
service.
There's a whole section on that.
There are files, there are tables and there are queues.
And when it comes to no SQL data, we can't talk about blobs as being a type of data storage.
You can certainly store your data in files and store those files in containers.
But let's talk about this table service now.
You can actually store data in this in a table type format.
OK, give it a name.
I'm going to call this class.
And we can actually there is a there is a storage explorer that we can get into here, we can open up
the table, see that we have Carr's table.
And very easily we can add some data to it.
Now, explain this in a second, we're going to say the partition key is cars.
The Rocchi is one.
And we're going to have to add sort of like a car.
Color is white.
Mieke.
Is BMW and model is let's call it X5.
OK, so very easily we can create a traditional looking table format and save this into Azure.
Now, I should explain, the two mandatory fields here are Partition Key and Rocchi.
Whenever we're talking about partitions and we'll talk about this again, we talk about Cosmos DB This
is a signal to Azure on how you can physically separate out the data in logical elements.
And so I can put the cars, I'm going to say the word cars because all of the data in this table relates
to cars.
And I'm not expecting Azure to need to physically separate out this into multiple servers and multiple
storage areas, get into cosmos.
TBH, this will be way more important, but the ROCCHI is basically going to be like the unique identifier.
So when I'm looking for car number one, this is I'm going to use the partition key cars, I'm going
to use the Roki one and this is the data that's going to be returned.
Now, the advantages of using a storage account for table storage is it is the cheapest form of storage
within Azure.
So you're paying now it's slightly more than a blob storage.
Right, if we look at this, we're looking at four and a half cents per gigabyte for data storage.
Remember, blusterous, I think is just under two cents, is probably one point eight cents per gigabyte.
So it's about three times as much as a storage account as a blob storage account, but still extremely
cheap.
So I used to work with a major car maker, one of the top 10 car makers of the world, and our marketing
database was 800 gigabytes.
And so if you do the math on this at five cents per gigabyte.
Time's 800 gigabytes.
You're looking at something like thirty five dollars a month to store their marketing database in the
cloud, and so that is extremely cheap and you can even have redundancy around the world for additional
pennies.
OK.
So the advantage of table storage is it's it's extremely cheap and the costs are predictable, right?
So there are data transfer related pricing, but we're looking at three one hundredths of a cent for
ten thousand transactions so that this data transfer pricing for table storage accounts should be a
very small part compared to the storage cost.
So the advantage is going to be the cheapness now, the disadvantage is going to be there is no service
level agreement.
Well, there is a service level agreement, but it's extremely generous from Asia's point of view.
So I believe the service level agreement is.
A two seconds per megabyte of data so you can ask for this road to be returned and it has up to two
seconds to return it to you, and you're looking at Cosmos DB, which has sub 10 second ten millisecond
response times.
And so table search doesn't have really a guaranteed SLA to the performance level of a lot of things.
But it's perfectly valid to store your data here.
It's extremely durable, extremely cheap, and especially when you have lots of data.
A storage account, I believe, currently can hold up to five petabytes of data.
And so if you have super large amounts of data, you can can store it really cheaply.
And it's the the limits of this is going to be pretty high.
We can see here with storage explorer, we can we got the one row, we can turn on a query here and
we can say, let's find all of the data where the partition keys, cars and the ROCCHI is one and it'll
return my expected result.
If I was to update the value, it returns nothing.
So you're not limited to storage explorer.
You can run this in your APIs, you can have your own code that's executing these queries, inserts
and and selects effectively.
And so storage table storage is a very valid way of storing data in the cloud.
But certainly, again, there's some downsides and particularly around the performance and the Wassily
for this thing.
