So the deployment took a little while.
Let's see how long that took go into operation, details like that, it estimated 15 minutes and it's
literally 15 minutes in two seconds.
So we go to the resource now.
So the Cosmos DBI was successfully created, it has a Eurail we can use this in the API calls to add
and retrieve data.
We haven't created any containers and thus there's no databases effectively.
So first thing we can do is say add container.
Very much like adding a table in table storage, you know, a little lizard pops up and we can call
this I'll call this one for a databased and inside the database is going to be the container.
So this is like having you know, there's a database that has the performance level.
So remember, four hundred is the smallest.
It estimates it at 77 cents a day or 23 dollars per month.
We could set up our scale even at this point so that if it needs to grow based on demand, we can allow
it to go between a range of speeds.
We can say twelve hundred of requestion as per month.
That's not too not too bad.
Seventy dollars right there.
So I'm going to keep it at the minimum.
Now, inside of the database is going to be a container so similar to a car's container.
One of the unique things here is the idea of the partition.
Keano, the table storage also had a partition key and I just set this to cars in the tables case with
Cousins DB.
It's a little bit more important.
We can see an example here of zip code being a partition.
Keep the partition key is really the deciding factor that allows Cousins DB to split up a database into
multiple servers if the performance required it.
So imagine you didn't have a lookup table, that you had some type of transaction table and you were
having hundreds of reads and writes per second cousins.
TV might want to split that up into the two instances and it would be the partition key that decides
what how things get split up.
Now, things that make great partition keys are going to be things that are unique enough as per the
whole database, but not necessarily completely unique to every record.
So friends, if you have a database of customers, you might break them up by country.
And so having a U.S. and Canada and Germany and all the different countries, that that could be a really
good thing to be a partition key.
What would make a bad partition key would be something like last name, because there's so many unique
last names.
You're you're not really helping your situation.
There also would be a bad partition key is something that is the same for everybody.
So you could say.
I don't know title where it's like Mr. or Mrs., but that's not unique enough to be to be a good person.
Maybe most people don't even have a title.
So country would make a good partition key.
You can also set up unique kids.
At this point.
I'm just going to create the customer's table with country.
Now we have our Deb one and I created customers instead of cars, and right now there's no items.
So the thing that lives within the container is the items.
Now, notice, one of the first things you might see here is this select star from see, that's a sequel
API, or a single command that is used to select data from within this core SQL data type.
Now, I'm going to have to create a couple of items here so I can say new item.
You'll notice the JSON document pops up so we can basically create it has to have an ID and then I'm
going to give it a name.
These are customers, right?
So John Doe and we can see a city.
So he is from New York City and country.
I'll put the United States right.
So if I if this was sufficient enough for a customer record, then I could click, save and create our
first record and we can see that DB DHBs added some other unique identifiers and a timestamp even to
the record.
With these underscores, I can create another new item.
Since I copied the previous one, I can just modify it.
I can call this Tony the Tiger.
He can be from.
London and London town, United Kingdom.
And we can save them now, these two records, there's only two records, but I've already done two
countries and those are going to live in two partitions with a database the size Azure might choose
to keep the partitions on the same server run by the same process.
But if it ever got big enough, this is how it would split.
I should make a note about this query, select staff from C. So what is what is C first of all, we'll
see.
It's just a label, so it's not in SQL Server.
It would be select staff from customers in Cosmos.
DB you you say select staff from it already knows what container you're talking about and C becomes
the the container.
So I can demonstrate how this works by you can see some examples here, I can see where you see Dot
City equals London.
And now I've modified the query and I'm only getting the one result, OK, if I remove the where clause
and apply the filter, that I'm getting both results.
So the query is this now there's also a query, another type of query metaphore here within the data
explorer select start from C, and I can see all of the results coming back fully.
I can say see that country.
United States.
And we only get the one result.
