All right, so we're back into the Cosmos DBI portal here.
Now, I should point out that the easy three or three exam requirements are very sparse in terms of
what's covered about Cosmos to be on this exam.
Now, it does mention data replication.
So we'll look into that right now.
Now, this is, I think, one of the pretty cool features of both Azure SQL database and Cosmos DB.
You can very easily choose to have your data replicated in one or more other regions of the world.
Now they can either be read-only regions which can improve in performance.
If you coger applications to read from local databases and write to the global database.
Or you can enable what's called multi region rights and make any of the additional regions writable.
Now, of course, there's a cost to this.
So right now I'm running this in WUIS.
You can remember that this is costing me around twenty seven dollars a month.
If I was to very simply replicate this to east you, as you see, I just clicked on the little plus
symbol and it's adding East us as a Read-Only region.
Well, that right there just doubles the cost.
So from twenty seven dollars a month to now 54 dollars a month for these two databases.
But what will happen is that all of the data that's written to us will be almost instantly replicated
to E us.
And so if I called my application to read the data from East U.S., it will almost always have the most
recent data.
Now we can talk about data consistency and how you can choose how consistent the data is, whether you
write data and it waits until the application is complete, before it becomes readable from any region
going to depend on your business, going to depend on your application.
Banking is one thing and social media app is a completely different thing.
But I can very easily choose one or more than one region to do replication Asia, UK, u e us and have
my data copied into all these regions.
If I was to click the save button, Azure is going to set this up for me it becomes because it's taken
care of for you.
