<v Scott>So I wanted to start off this course</v>
with a bit of a baseline set.
The problem with teaching through video,
or teaching even live online, to a group,
is that I have no way of really knowing
your individual level of experience,
and adapting the content to you specifically.
And so whether you're at the beginning,
the left-most of this chart,
or you're a beginner,
you don't really have much experience with Azure,
or even with cloud computing,
or you're a little bit farther along the way,
maybe you have experience with AWS but not with Azure,
you understand the cloud concepts,
and what the benefits are,
but you don't really have the specific skills
working with PowerShell,
working with the portal, et cetera.
Or maybe you're far,
you know, mid-way down this line here,
and you've, maybe if you've passed
one of the existing associate level exams,
be it the administrator or the developer,
you work in some specific areas of Azure,
but you don't have exposure to the entire broad set
of services that Azure has.
Or maybe even you're above that,
and you've been working with Azure for a couple of years,
and you've got a broad range of skills,
you've just not taken the architect test yet,
and you want to take a course like this
to catch yourself up on all of the areas of Azure
that you're not exposed to on your day to day.
Well I don't really have that way
of adapting this course to you specifically,
and that's just the reality of it.
And so as we're going through this course,
I want to start off, sort of here.
I sort of picked an area on this line, about 25% down,
where I want everyone to get
to at least this level of knowledge.
And so this video is sort of an attempt
to get you, if you watch this video and follow it,
you'll at least get to where that spot is on the line.
Now if you're very far to the right,
if you're already in intermediate,
if you've already passed an associate level exam,
or you've been working with Azure for years,
maybe this stuff is not great for you,
and you want to sort of put this on a faster speed,
I know with video technology
we can set videos to a faster speed,
and so you might want to go through this
at 1.5 X or faster.
Or maybe even skip it entirely,
that's totally up to you.
But basically I want to get everybody
from that left-most spot on the beginner,
at least into a novice level,
in a single video,
or a set of videos here.
And so it's a bit of a challenge,
but we're going to push everyone
at least a little bit more to the right.
Now I will say that this does not necessarily replace
the Azure fundamentals level exam.
Okay, you're not going to watch this single video
and then go off and get certified
as a fundamentals level on Azure,
it doesn't cover all of the topics on that exam.
But this is basically,
I don't know if it's equivalent or,
this is basically where we're aiming at,
we're going to get people into this general range here.
So we're going to start off
talking about cloud computing in general.
Not necessarily specifically Microsoft Azure,
but what's the big deal?
Why, you know,
maybe you've worked in IT for a little bit of a time,
you've worked with servers,
client-server setups, or hosting,
what's the big deal with cloud computing?
What's all the fuss about?
So this is in my own words,
but basically the big deal with cloud computing,
is that it gives you this ability
to rent computing resources.
And not just, you know,
you can rent a resource at Bluehost,
or any of the hosting providers,
but it's available for your use within minutes,
and you only pay for what you use,
whether it's in time,
or in gigabytes, or other measurement.
And that costs can literally be pennies.
You can literally get a computer,
use it for a little bit,
and end up paying 30 cents.
And that, when that came out about 10 years ago,
that was a revolutionary idea.
Okay, so before cloud computing was available,
or if you're using services
other than cloud computing services,
either you own the equipment,
and so you go off and you get the server,
and it's a massive, up front cost,
and time, it takes weeks to install the software,
and then get that into your own data center.
Or you have to do a rent to release type of thing,
which may be less up front cost, but it's still,
you end up signing a lease for three years, or four years,
and you still need to take a week
to lease some equipment.
Or if you go,
let's talk about Bluehost,
and those shared hosting models,
that's not necessarily reliable performance.
You lose something in that shared environment,
where you lose control,
other customers have the ability to negatively impact you,
and things like that,
and it's not necessarily,
you still have the commitment issues,
you still have the amount of time it takes,
and the loss of control.
So I can remember a story,
not too long ago,
maybe five or six years ago,
working in an environment where we knew
we needed to grow the environment.
I had a project coming up,
we needed a server, a dev server,
testing server, production server.
And so you go,
IBM is the host, and you go
and you say, "Well, we need a server."
And they go off,
it takes them 48 hours to come back with a quote,
they go off and find the latest hardware prices,
they put their own estimates around it,
how long it's going to take them to get the machine,
how long it's going to take them to set it up,
how long it's going to take them
to get it available within the environment.
And it comes back with a $50,000 price tag
for a single server.
And I have to go to my boss and say,
"We need $50,000 for this project."
He doesn't have the authorization
to spend $50,000 just like that,
so he has to go to the finance team and say,
"We need $50,000."
The finance team goes,
"Well, we got to talk to the client."
Blah blah blah.
It takes weeks to make this decision,
and finally we get the approval, blah blah blah.
And so that's the environment
many corporations and enterprises are coming from, okay?
So to go into the cloud environment,
where you can literally make this,
have this idea, and then within 20 minutes,
have a server at your disposal,
try something out, and then say,
"Oh, actually we'll do something differently."
And then stopping that, it's revolutionary.
Cloud computing, if you go in there
it's not just Windows servers, Linux servers.
There are hundreds of unique services.
Machine learning, and databases, and storage,
and we'll get into that in a few seconds here.
So back then, you know,
10, 12 years ago,
this infrastructure as a service,
this is what they call when you go
and get a server in the cloud,
or networking in the cloud,
that's infrastructure, provided as a service.
That was sort of like the idea that Amazon had,
that was sort of revolutionary.
Now let's talk about the different companies
that are available in this space now.
Hopefully you've heard of these people before,
Amazon Web Services, AWS,
is, was the first mover,
I think they're both about 12 years old
at the time of recording.
And as of today, they're still the largest cloud provider.
Many people think they have a huge lead in the space,
and I'm going to show you in a second that they're huge lead
isn't actually that huge.
Microsoft Azure started about 10 years ago,
and is the current number two provider
of public cloud services,
the gap has really shrunk.
Microsoft was growing, outgrowing Amazon for years,
and so basically they've caught up in a lot of ways.
Google, which is,
you know, you're surprised
because Google was sort of into search,
and YouTube, and ads,
and they've had this,
they were famous for having millions of servers,
long before, you know,
Microsoft decided to get into cloud,
and they are actually lagging behind
when it comes to providing public cloud services.
Not only lagging behind in revenue in that particular part,
but in their capabilities, and their offerings,
and their vision, et cetera.
I always turn to this company called RightScale,
who produces what's called
the "State of the Cloud Report" every year,
and it's always interesting when they come out with this.
On the last "State of the Cloud Report" for 2019,
actually showed Amazon AWS
losing 1% of the, what was called
adoption in the enterprise.
So if you look only at these Fortune 500,
or these big enterprise-sized companies,
they've actually lost a point of market share in there.
Azure has continued to grow,
and they grew 2% over 2018.
Google again, 1%.
That's I mean, to follow up at 1%,
or increase 1%, that's pretty flat really.
We've got the other players,
there's many different cloud provides,
some of them not even listed,
but we're talking about teams,
we're talking about Ali Baba at 4%, et cetera.
And so, in the enterprise,
we'll see that these one, two,
and three, Amazon AWS,
Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform,
are really the three top cloud providers,
and the other ones,
even if their adoption rate or their market share
isn't so far, they're really far behind in capability,
according to many things including Gartner Group.
Now you'll see also from those percentages,
that, you know, Amazon is at 67%,
and Azure at 60%.
Well the whole thing adds up to over 200%,
so Multi-cloud is pretty common.
You'll have companies that use Amazon
for this particular project,
and use Azure for something else.
They'll put their stuff in an S3 bucket,
and they'll run their virtual machines in Azure,
you know, different tools for different purposes.
There are, you know, it's also a protection strategy
in case the prices on AWS get out of hand,
you can go have them compete against each other, et cetera.
Many different reasons for using Multiple-cloud options.
Now I'm trying to express my excitement about the cloud,
I personally think that this has,
this has been an awesome revolution,
I've been so thrilled and excited to be part of it
in the last few years,
in terms of teaching Azure.
But I also want to sort of put a stop and say,
that let's just, you know,
really the cloud is great, and I love it,
00:11:01,420  -->  00:11:03,853 line:15% 
but it's really just a computer,
00:11:05,110  -->  00:11:05,943 line:15% 
there is no cloud,
00:11:05,943  -->  00:11:07,460 line:15% 
it's just someone else's computer.
00:11:07,460  -->  00:11:11,860 line:15% 
So I'm going to continue to be excited about it,
00:11:11,860  -->  00:11:13,220 line:15% 
I'm going to continue to try to get you
00:11:13,220  -->  00:11:16,440 line:15% 
to get excited about Azure in particularly,
00:11:16,440  -->  00:11:21,423 line:15% 
but you know, it's just we're talking about computing here.
So that's sort of an overview
of sort of the really high level overview of the players,
and of what the cloud is,
let's get a little bit deeper, you know,
bring the plane down a little bit lower,
and talk about the overall benefits of cloud.
So I started off this video
talking about renting computing resources,
available in minutes,
charged by the minute,
costs you a few cents,
is sort of the thing that grabs peoples attention.
And you really can create a server in just a few minutes.
So I'm going to pause the slides here,
and we're going to switch over to the Azure portal.
