[Instructor] All right, we're going to start up
our stopwatch again and this time we're going to use
the command line instead of the user interface
that we did for the virtual machine.
Once again, I'm going to create a resource group.
Now again, the purpose is not to teach you
how to do this but to show you how easy it is to do.
So this is an empty resource group where
we're going to create our resources.
And I'm going to run a command here
that creates a container, a Windows operating system
container, and grabs an image from Docker Hub.
So this is a Docker Hub URL for Microsoft Windows IIS.
And we'll let that run.
It's going to take a minute or so.
But it's going to basically create a container
running IIS, and we're going to see, very quickly, hopefully,
that, you know, familiar screen that's the first screen
of IIS, when IIS successfully installs
and there's no applications installed
we're going to see that sample app.
So, we'll give that a second.
All right, so we see that within
about four minutes time here, we have succeeded
and so I should be able to go to this URL,
which I labeled it azsjddemo and we have that sort of
default home screen for IIS when it's just first installed.
And that's running in a container.
And that took about four minutes, as we saw.
So, certainly Linux containers,
the great thing about containers is that
you can package up your code,
like say you've got your own application,
IIS with your own websites, your own folders,
everything all installed and it takes
the same amount of time to deploy.
So, because it's created as an image
sitting in Docker Repository, Docker Hub
and you deploy it to a container
and you've got it running.
Now, I wouldn't necessarily recommend
the ACI that we just demonstrated
as a production instance 'cause it's a solo instance here.
There's no multiple nodes running.
There's no fault tolerance, etc.
So, we'll get into Azure Kubernetes Service
and stuff in future modules of this course.
But to get code running, you can do that in four minutes,
five minutes, got a public IP address,
even this one has a fully qualified domain name.
And so if you've got to demonstrate some code,
deploy some code, super quick, super reliable.
Stuff like that.
Deleting it, so let's say we didn't want it anymore,
az container, delete, give it its name.
I called it democontainer.
I say yes.
And look at that, it returns in less than a second here.
So, deleting things, creating things,
can be very quick in the cloud.
