<v Narrator>So now let's switch it up a little bit</v>
and let's talk about the Buzzwords effectively.
You'll hear these things as being advantages
or features of the cloud.
We're going to just dive into some of these.
Now, first concept is the economies of scale.
Now, it's just a fact, I guess,
that Microsoft can purchase a server, install it,
and run it for cheaper than almost anyone else
in the entire world.
Right?
They're at that scale where they can run a server
for lot less than you can run a server.
Okay?
This includes, not only the purchase of the hardware
because they can negotiate.
If they're going to go buy a hundred thousand
servers from somebody,
they're going to get a really great price
that you're not going to be able to get.
There was a slide that said
they have um,
electricity is about 20% of the cost of
running a server on your own.
And Microsoft's building data centers next to rivers
and they're being able to draw on the river
to power their data center, et cetera.
All of these ways
that Microsoft's getting electricity cheaply.
There are certain countries,
if you're any familiar with Bitcoin,
countries that are known
as having cheaper electricity costs.
And so Microsoft can install servers
and get the absolute lowest rates on electricity.
Even the labor costs,
now you might think, "Oh, Microsoft's employees
"are not any cheaper than my employees.
Maybe they're more expensive,
but you're only running 100 servers.
Microsoft's employees are running hundreds of thousands
of servers each.
And so the cost per server an employee can just,
cost can be distributed over to many servers.
And the other thing you don't really think about
on the demand side is the utilization of the servers.
And so while you're running servers and you may have daytime
and nighttime and certain capacities that go up and down,
seasonal, Christmas time, versus the summer seasons,
Microsoft's able to, because of their global reach,
and the millions of customers,
they're able to manage the demand.
Nighttime, daytime, Christmas, winter, summer
because of the way that the world works.
So they're able to get higher utilization rates
out of their hardware, and manage it,
than you would out of your hardware.
So the first concept we'll talk about
is the concept of high availability.
Now, you may be familiar with this
'cause it's not just a cloud concept,
but it's a concept in general.
The availability of a system is basically the percentage
of time that, that whole application, the thing as a whole,
is able to successfully respond to user requests.
And so you can use the word uptime
as a very proxy, a very similar word,
but it's not just the uptime of that server,
it's the connection to the internet.
It's the backend services,
the database that serves the server,
the load down service and all of the services around it.
So um it is uptime,
but it's not just uptime of a single machine.
Now, you might think 90% is a high score,
and if you pass your exams,
your parents might be pretty proud of you with a 90% grade.
But 90% availability in servers is not that great.
It's literally two and a half hours of downtime per day.
That means you are aiming to
be down from midnight to 3 a.m. every night.
And that's not a really available server, right?
If you radically scale that up and say,
"Okay, we're going to go for 99% availability."
that's still about 15 minutes a day of downtime.
I mean, that's basically the time it takes
to reboot a server.
And so if you said the nature of our server,
the nature of our application is
that we need to reboot it every day.
We cannot function more than a few days without a reboot.
So every morning at 3 a.m., we're going to reboot the sever.
That's technically 99% availability
because you can't keep that server running more than
you know with 15 minutes a day, it needs to be rebooted.
So it's pretty good availability.
Maybe your customers wouldn't necessarily notice,
except if it's like every day
in the middle of the day, unexpected,
that would be a problem.
Now we get the concept of high availability
so that was just availability in general,
but high availability is intentional.
All right it's intentionally creating a system that seeks
to avoid downtime and that requires thought, right?
That requires planning in advance.
And it's not necessarily the cheapest solution.
You're going to have to go for higher-level,
more expensive services
from the cloud providers, including Azure.
You're going to have to go for duplication,
replication, backups, all of this stuff.
It adds cost.
So to get from,
We were just on the last slide of 90 and 99%,
now we're talking 99.9.
And when we get into these nines,
you might hear them referred to as three nines,
four nines, five nines.
So three nines availability,
is a minute and a half a day.
That's actually pretty good.
If your application isn't available from you know,
just randomly, from 3:00 to 3:01 p.m.
I mean, your not really going to,
people will deal with that,
but that's not necessarily super ideal.
We get to four nines availability,
that's only seconds, right?
That is nine seconds per day.
That's very difficult to achieve four nines
on a single server because servers need stuff installed,
servers need rebooting from time to time.
When you get into three nines and four nines,
you're talking about having multiple copies
of your application in different regions,
load balanced, et cetera.
Now, you might think,
"Okay, my goal is to be 100% available.
"100 is the goal."
Well, that's sort of a mythical creature.
It's like the Loch Ness monster or a Yeti or something
where you could set that as a goal, I guess,
but it's generally not entirely possible.
And I say this very carefully
because there are companies out there
who are bigger than you and bigger than your client,
like Facebook, like Google, like Amazon.com retail site.
All of these companies who do not have 100% availability.
I can remember just over a month ago,
a month and a half ago, Google search being down.
I went to Google.com and I got an error message.
And you stop for a second and go, "What?
"What am I seeing here?
"Google.com's not available?"
And then you refresh the browser and it comes back.
But that's not 100%.
If I get an error from Google.com,
even if it's just for a few seconds, that's down.
And there are times too when we hear about
these cloud providers having regional outages
and so Azure, Microsoft,
Azure will occasionally have a bad deployment.
AWS will occasionally kill their whole region.
And then you hear about these companies like Stripe
and all of these eCommerce companies and eBay's
and things like that,
having outages because the cloud provider has an outage.
And so its 100% is generally thought to be impossible
and prove me wrong there I guess.
Next concept we just so that's a high availability,
it's intentional, right?
But you can't get to a hundred
but you can get 99, 99.99, four nines, five nines.
Those are attainable.
Scalability.
Scalability is the ability of your system to handle
the growth of the users
or the growth of the work for those users.
And we take a graphic like this,
really crude graphic that I drew.
But you can see that every system has a max capacity.
Every system, okay?
Even Amazon.com has a max capacity.
But Amazon.com sets their limits so high
that it's higher than their usual spike in traffic, okay.
I worked in an environment once where
we did load testing.
And we ran a load test against our main website.
Then you come back and it says you can handle,
this many thousand concurrent users.
And you find out where that Bottleneck is.
Is it in the traffic to the data base,
is it in the IO system writing files to the server,
is it CPU, is it memory.
What is the Bottleneck?
And you work on that,
you run the test again.
It's a recurring process to say,
what is your Bottleneck?
But every OP has a Bottleneck.
Every OP, okay.
So Scaling is not the is not the act of being able to scale
but necessarily, is it possible?
Is it easy?
Can you just add a server and boom.
You've increased your capacity.
So can you increase your capacity?
That means no code changes, no refactoring of your code,
no re-architecting of your solution.
If you can grow your solution,
then you can say your solution is Scalable.
