<v Instructor>So, I wanted to wrap up</v>
this introductory section here
to talk about where we're at, okay?
So, I started off this section talking about
the continuum of knowledge,
where you're starting from the beginning,
you've got no knowledge,
very little knowledge of what cloud computing is,
what Azure is.
And you can go all the way through to the expert level
where you're ready to take and pass the exam
and you pass it with a great score, and even beyond, right?
There's more to Azure than even beyond
what is tested at the expert certification level.
But, I wanted to get people to sort of like
a little bit further down the continuum
from the beginner level,
at least until this novice level.
Like I said, it wasn't my plan to get you
to pass the fundamental's exam
but if you take what I just did
and go and take an AZ-900 course
and go and take a AZ-900 exam,
you might be pretty far, or ready for that.
But, so hopefully we got a little bit further
down that continuum.
Now I need to warn you, right?
Azure is huge.
There is a lot to learn.
You're going to feel overwhelmed by this,
you know, there are hundreds of videos to go through
and not even only that
but hundreds of topics and hundreds of services.
If you look at the compute options that we reviewed,
there are eight or 10 different ways of executing code
in Azure.
Database options,
there's eight or 10 different database options.
Storage options, networking options,
load balancing options,
how to achieve high availability,
et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
So, Azure is actually huge
and it's very difficult in any kind of course to be honest
to convey expert level knowledge in hundreds of areas.
So, there is a lot.
Now, think about what your job is.
If your job is to become an Azure architect
and start designing solutions for Azure,
well, then your job revolves
around the question of why, okay?
We do need to understand all of the Azure options,
all of the offerings.
So, there is this broad level of knowledge
in terms of what is available.
But, why, why would you choose
out of those ten compute options
between web apps and VMs,
of you know, serverless model with functions
and service fabric.
Why would you choose one over the other?
All of them have pros and cons.
There are cost implications.
There's performance implications, control implications
and the expert level knowledge required, et cetera.
So, all of these things have pros and cons
and our job as architects ultimately is
to understand what's available
and why you would choose one over the other?
And so a lot of what we're going to be talking about is
how does this work?
And why would you choose it?
Now, you'll find if you get,
if you're interested in getting into the exams
in terms of Azure architecture exams,
that there are how elements to it.
So, it's not just why, right?
So, Microsoft is going to ask you to create a VM,
not just understand why you would want to create a VM,
but they're going to say go ahead and do it.
So, we do need to go deeper than just the why.
Also, I believe in terms of learning this
is going to help you.
So, doing is actually better than hearing.
It's actually better than seeing someone do it.
Doing it yourself.
And so my intention and my hope is that
you're going to, not in this section,
but when we get into various talking
about databases and virtual machines and web apps,
that you're going to go and do it.
You're going to say oh, well,
I'm going to go and try to create a web app
and see how easy or how hard it was.
Okay, so doing is better than seeing
and listening when it comes to learning.
I want to end with sort of a, with my approach, okay?
I'm not here to sort of preach at you.
But, I do want to encourage you.
I want to encourage you to not be afraid of it.
Don't be afraid of Azure.
Don't be afraid to ask questions.
Don't be afraid to look something up.
Go do a search in your favorite search engine,
that Microsoft has a great docs website, documents.
And so their help website is fantastic.
Or try it yourself, right?
You don't need to ask me to you know,
what happens when you try to create two web apps
with the same name?
Well, go, go and create a web app
and then create a second web app with the same name
and see what happens.
So, this is the great thing about Azure.
It's cheap or free to do certain things
and you'll see for yourself.
And that's, I think, where you'll learn better
than if I told you and I looked it up
and I answered the question, okay?
So, don't be afraid of Azure
and don't be afraid to go and explore with it
and play with it and you know expand your own understanding.
My final philosophy,
I put resourcefulness wins
and I'm going to put that on its own slide here.
This is not just for Azure.
It's not just for this course,
but for every course you'll ever take.
I think this is true for your career.
I think this is true for anything.
If you are presented with a problem,
there are two types of people.
If you're presented with the problem
and you stop and you wait until someone comes along
and helps you, that is less than ideal, okay?
You are not going to go as far
as the person who's presented with the problem
and solves it,
goes around it, goes under it,
goes through, destroys it, okay?
So, there's no brick wall.
It's only in your mind.
So, resourcefulness wins,
not only with this course,
not only with Azure but with everything.
Now, that's the only, hopefully the only preachiness part of
of this whole thing,
But, I want to encourage you to be resourceful
and to not let anything stop you.
If I have a video coming up
and it doesn't quite get into enough detail
from something that you're really interested in,
don't let that stop you.
Go find it and go deeper, okay?
Resourcefulness wins.
Thanks.
