So let's talk about the message based architecture we talked about this a little bit within the long
running apps but there are more message based solutions within Azure to talk about.
Now one of the ways that you can send messages within Azure is called Send grid.
Now send grid is basically an email delivery service.
You can go into the Azure portal and if you search the marketplace for mail you can see send grid as
one of the options.
It's basically a REST API that your applications can use to either send or receive email messages.
It is a scalable you can you can use it for sending a single message or for dozens of messages hundreds
of messages thousands of messages now sent grid is a third party.
It is included in the exam requirements but it's not actually a Microsoft service.
It can process incoming mail.
So if you need your programs to monitor an e-mail address it can connect to SMP and read the emails
and then basically you can do your processing based on the contents of those.
And because of a third party service you actually need a send grid account when you go to into Azure
to create your send grid account.
There are there are limits to the number of Senate grants accounts that you can have et cetera.
We talked about event rate in the last video.
So if you are not going to do it again.
But basically it's part of the section so review the last video.
It does allow you to connect a lot of events sources within Microsoft Azure to other computing models
within Azure.
So you've got you know new files are created in your blob account or a new message was added to a service
bus queue that could trigger any kind of program from logic apps Azure functions web hooks which could
trigger like a web app et cetera to fire.
OK.
We haven't yet talked about the Azure relay service.
Now the really service is not so much a messaging platform as a way for messages to pass through your
company's firewall from the outside.
That sounds a little bit scary but the way that it's set up is you enable Azure really service within
your Azure account and that gives you an endpoint.
You install a application inside your company's network on a server and that establishes the communication
between the inside of your network and Microsoft Azure typically.
There are a couple of ways that you can communicate over this channel.
The legacy way is using Windows communications framework WSF services.
So basically you've got applications outside your network that want to call API services inside your
network and those Passover a GDP over this connection etc..
So the big up sell of this is you don't have to go and make changes to your firewall settings.
You don't have to talk to your security team alone.
Maybe you want to let them know this happened the way that it works is when you install the application
inside your network.
It does an outbound connection to Azure and then it leaves that channel open and so messages can pass
in from the from Azure into your company's network over a channel that was initiated as an outbound
connection.
OK here's a diagram that that sort of shows this that as you can see now this is the old style of liberals
and worker rules but it's still valid in terms of you got applications whether they're programs or apps
services or any of those cut computing models outside of your network they can call an endpoint that
is inside of Azure called the service plus really that passes over your firewall and communicates to
your on premises application that has an endpoint inside.
OK now the two types of service relays are called hybrid connections and WSF relays.
I'll be brief to describe the differences the hybrid connections are sort of more sophisticated connections
they're based on old biz talk services that they allow.
Not only do they allow HDP communication but you can use web sockets and because you can use web sockets
you can have applications running inside your network and applications running outside your network
that can communicate to each other that don't require W F to be enabled.
Now WSF is a specific platform for talking securely and is Microsoft dot net.
I believe it's it's I believe it's a proprietary thing with Microsoft I might be wrong on that but basically
the WEF really is only for WC services you cannot use any other communication using a WC f really it's
a legacy offering.
And again it's own issued P to WC it back in services
the next type of messaging that you can use is called notification hub.
Now this has got a very limited use because you're basically sending messages through your notification
hub to mobile applications.
So the scenario is your company has a application that people can install in the Android store with
an eye to store or in the windows store and if they use if you use your notification hub the write code
within those applications then you can basically pass messages to those devices.
Now it is very flexible because you can push messages to all devices at once or you can have specific
like you only want to notify Android users or you only want to notify people using Android.
You know the nugget operating system or IOW 10 users you can also have a specific user let's say you
want John Doe to get a notification then you can use notifications to that to specific users based on
their location so maybe you only want Canadian users to get this message and American users to get a
different message and it can also be personalized to the message itself can say Hey John we got this
new thing for you.
So notification hub your only need to worry about this if you've got apps and you want from your back
in service system be to communicate those apps and so I'll go back a screen you can see that it's using
the standard Apple push notification service or Google's firebase are windows notification service so
it integrates with those third parties notifications services so that you can get those messages to
your your applications running on people's phones.
Next up we have event hub.
Now we talked about event hub and last video as well.
I do want to highlight this diagram that shows on the left you have devices than things that produce
events.
So typically this is going to be phone apps application installs on people's computers you know your
car fleets your Internet of Things devices your Fitbit.
All of these things can produce events and instead of having them call your applications directly and
having to worry about the scaling and the load on that you put event hub in front of it an event hub
can accept those events and store them.
And so now on the right side you have receivers who receive events and they can do so on the do so on
their own terms just like in a service bus situation the load on the left doesn't affect the load on
the right.
The event hub protects it.
OK.
Important to also know that messages can actually come in in order if you design it that way.
Right.
So if you if you need to message want to be before message to to be before message three then event
hub supports that.
So this is called a big hub a big data streaming platform receives messages from millions of producers
like your car fitness trackers thermostat etc. supports HDP US and the Amcu IP protocols and I said
you can do them same order a service bus.
We talked about service bus unless video as well.
But again it's part of the sectional.
I'll bring it up again it's enterprise grade messaging service and it does support those two different
delivery guarantees.
So the at least once guarantee and the most ones guarantee this makes it different than this is storage
queues finally in part of this messaging section is the Microsoft Graph.
You may have may not have heard of this but the Microsoft Graph API is designed for interacting with
Microsoft's Office 365 platform in no windows 365 etc. Office 365 has outlook.
And so basically as an alternate to the send grid email platform you can use Microsoft Graph to connect
to outlook in Office 365 and it can send emails or receive emails etc..
So this is just another API.
Microsoft provides for interacting.
Now I don't have any particular other other than the fact that you need a single account.
You need to pace and grid as a subscription for the number of emails that use Microsoft Graph.
Being a part of Microsoft's suite of API is that will support it Office 365.
Millions upon millions of users of Office 365.
So those are the compare and contrast between the two.
I don't think there's an official recommendation of course they're promoting a single.
It's a very popular way of sending emails.
Microsoft Graph to connect to office certified is also not bad idea either so here's the teal D.R. from
this section we're talking about messaging basically messaging platforms in designing your applications
in using messaging when you are using messaging you're basically going to be developing highly available
and responsive apps.
This allows you to disconnect the load that the front end application is receiving from the load that
the rest of the application needs to deal with and that way you can only if you make the front end application
extremely thin then you can scale it.
It's very inexpensive to scale if your load goes up and down.
So in such drastic measures this is a good way to make your application pretty pretty calm in the back
hands.
Right the waves are basically isolated from the rest of the rest of the app.
If you need to just send messages then you use things like emails whether it's a send grid or Microsoft
graph you can use cues like storage cues and service bus queues.
The Azure really service allows messages to pass from applications outside your network to services
running inside your network.
Typically it's WC f service but it doesn't have to be use notification hub to send notifications to
mobile devices event grid is a very good glue that's that stands between event producers like your subscriptions
and resources groups and anything within Microsoft Azure that can create events and a bunch of event
consumers that could be a logic app could be a function etc event hub.
On the other hand is more of an IO T service and it can handle millions of events for millions of concert
users multiple gigabytes per second coming in and that way the applications again running on the other
side of your event hub are not necessarily need to be affected by the growth and drop of supply and
demand.
