So the next concept when it comes to developing for the cloud is auto scaling.
Now hopefully most of us know what auto scaling is.
It's this concept of your application of resources being able to grow to meet the demand and then to
be able to shrink when the demand no longer there.
So it's this sort of idealized statement the real strength of the cloud is the ability to have your
your servers and resources just the right size for that particular moment and every time more users
start to come you can join fire up more resources and when the the Go away you can go back to your baseline
level of resources.
Now in that case there are patterns that Microsoft recommends that are that are in that cloud industry.
So let's talk about the patterns for auto stealing so the four patterns that we're going to talk about
the four most common patterns are the simplest one which is just turning off resources when you don't
need them and turning them back on when you need them.
There's this a state of just growth where you know and hopefully a lot of us have been in this where
you're only concerned with being able to add more servers and that's sort of a high growth form so you
just add more services your Web site as more and more customers start using it the unpredictable auto
scaling has to do with monitoring the CPSU or the memory or some other metric that tells you that your
servers are under heavy load and then adding more resources when that metric triggers so unpredictable.
Auto scaling is basically you're just going to monitor the resource consumption predictable out of scaling
on the other hand is that you can sit back and say well my application is used primarily by people in
North America.
People in North America are primarily a week from 8:00 o'clock in the morning until midnight and primarily
asleep between midnight and 8:00 in the morning.
And so you can buy a schedule by the time clock scale up is killed on resources and basically have significant
savings because you know that your customer base is just not likely to be online during those those
time periods.
And so that might be a way of scaling without having to worry about CPO usage and things like that.
So we're going to talk about some of those patterns now.
The off and on pattern is the easiest one to explain right.
You might have a job that fires let's say a particular job fires every four hours.
OK.
It's a re indexer for your search engine.
Now the server that it runs on it might have some other work to do and that's fine.
But if that's if that resource does not have other things that it does other than fire up this re indexing
job every four hours you should consider within the cloud turning off that server when it's not being
when that application is not running.
OK so for three and a half hours the server is completely idle the CPO runs at zero percent most of
the time you're just burning money and burning resources.
So consider having a pattern and a plan that turns off that server shuts it down once the job is finished
running and then by schedule every four hours starts the server up again
now believe it or not this.
This might sound strange right you have a growth pattern where you are only really concerned with adding
servers in the you know turning off servers is not really part of your thought process.
I've actually been in that state where I've worked for a company where we just kept wanting to add servers.
This is pre cloud days and so adding servers was a real ordeal.
But I can see that there's plenty of times when your five web servers and you want to get to six and
get to seven and get to eight.
That's an auto scaling pattern right is just to keep adding and not have any provision for reducing
the number of service.
Maybe it's not particularly a great one but it's definitely something that does exist in the real world.
Now the unpredictable pattern like we said it's basically picking a metric that accurately record you
know recognizes when your servers under load.
So you might have a Web site where the CPA never really gets very high.
But some other resources become blocked and you basically end up with slower response times bad user
experiences so CPO might not be the best metric for every situation you're gonna have to analyze your
situations and say oh in this case it's memory usage or in this case it's Io disk Io per second or some
other custom metric.
Microsoft Azure allows you lose your application to basically expose a metric using application insights
and then you can do your scaling based on what your application reports.
So if it's the number of tasks per per minute or the number of you know amount of data throughput into
your application you can expose that using application insights and just scaling based on that.
So that's an unpredictable model.
It could be high at 9:00 in the morning and then lo at 10:00 in the morning and there's no rhyme or
reason particularly why that happened.
But you can code your auto scaling to handle that.
Finally we did talk about predictable auto scaling where you know nine to five Monday to Friday.
That's your key hours or you might.
I've been in situations where we have a big campaign coming up doing something for visa and we just
know the website's going to be hammered after the Super Bowl.
It's just going to be crazy.
And so knowing that you need to scale at a certain time you can set your your auto scaling rules to
fire up an hour hour before you know that big tsunami of traffic is going to happen etc. So the tail
D.R. for this is that auto scaling is the real strength of cloud computing the ability to rent these
resources for a few minutes or for a few hours only pay by the minute means that you can add servers
and reduce the load on your existing servers improve your users experience and it's only gonna cost
you a few dollars.
And then when that is gone you can reduce the costs and not have to over provision this over provisioning
of course being a downside of technology these days.
So basically having the ability to scale up and scale down is the real strength and so these are the
patterns that you should look at and you know in your real life and also for this test.
