So when we go back into the server section of the azure migrate, we can see that we have now access
to the assess button that wasn't there before.
And so I can see the assessment now.
We do have to make some decisions before it creates the assessment.
So I'm going to upload this into a Azure VM.
We're not going to use VMware inside of Azure.
And I want the discovery source.
We didn't use the azure migrate appliance we actually imported as CSV file.
So we'll change this to imported machines.
We do have to give it a name.
And so I'm going to call this first.
Assessment, we can see that there are some properties here, WUSA, three years reserved, etc..
Now, these are the 10 virtual machines that we imported in the CSP file.
We can see one, two, three, four, five, six, seven is not there.
Now, remember, on page one or two, well, there's seven.
OK, so all 10 machines made it inside and we can see the operating system that we filled out.
And sort of the group name, so this is going to be the first group.
Select all to put the machines in the group, and now we see secret assessment.
So now it's going to take those 10 machines that we had in the history file and create an actual Azur
migration assessment for us.
All right, so now that the assessments being created, we can go into the overview.
We can see that there were 10 machines that were imported and one in seven created, we can either click
on the assessment here or go under assessments.
Now overview, it shows me that seven of our 10 virtual machines are just ready to be imported and three
of them need something to happen first before they can be imported.
We also see an estimate of the monthly cost compute cost being three hundred thirty dollars a month
and storage cost me a whopping fifty four hundred dollars a month.
Now we can see the details of the readiness scroll into here, we can see the machines that are ready
and some of them that are not ready.
So remember, three of them have issues.
If I click on this, I can see that it is says unsupported boot type.
So the machine itself, for instance, has an EFI boot type and that needs to be migrated to Azure in
a different way.
You can't just make an image of it and restore it into Azure.
We would have to do a proper backup of the files and to restore the files.
But anyways, that's an example of doing an assessment.
Now, when you're ready to let's say you're happy, you said, OK, we can we fix the those three machines,
I'll migrate them manually, the seven machines, I'm ready to start the migration.
That was the assessment tool.
Now we get down to the migration tool, and that's a different process of discovering them, doing the
replication, migrating them into Azure.
But we can see that the azure migrate source is the center for doing these assessments and migrations
and the style.
