Azure does have a backup and recovery service is called a recovery services vault, and if I start searching
for recovery, I'll see that that's the service and you have a couple of them in various locations.
Now I'm going to create a new one.
I'm going to put this into the migrant resource group.
It doesn't have to be, but I'm just going to put it there so I don't keep creating them.
I do have to give the vault a name.
And so this is going to be called my new recovery services vault.
Now, the region is important because the nature of backups, you're going to want to put the recovery
services vault in the same region as your resources.
So I'm going to put it into WUSA because I'll have a virtual machine in that same region that I can
back up to, we're going to save you and create and then create.
I was pretty quick to create a recovery services vault.
Like I said, this is a type of storage account.
And when I get it, when it's a credit, I'll show you what I mean by that.
And that only took a few seconds, I'm going to say go to resource now, the canvassers vault really
only has those two purposes backup and site recovery, which is also sometimes called replication.
So we can we can sort of see the backup status and any kind of replication status.
So if you wanted to copy a machine from one location and put it to another location, you would do a
site recovery operation.
Remember when we did the migration assessment, there were those three virtual machines or those three
machines in our on premises environment that the boot system wasn't supported?
Well, the recommendation was we would use site recovery to back up those machines and then recover
them inside of Azure as virtual machines.
So this is a copy operation.
And, of course, there's a storage component to the copy.
Before we get into actually performing a backup, I should tell you about the concept of the soft delete,
because for testing purposes, this is going to affect you to go into properties.
And I'm going to scroll down now.
We can see the backup configuration encryption if it matters to us and security settings.
Click on update.
We can see under security settings that there's this thing called soft delete and it actually explains
it here on the bottom.
So with this enabled, which it is by default, the backup of data is retained for 14 days after the
virtual machine is deleted.
And if you try to delete the backup data, it's retained for 14 days.
Now, the relevance of this is I'm about to do a test here of a backup.
And as soon as I'm done the test, I'm going to want to delete this, delete the virtual machine and
delete the recovery services vault.
Well, with this enabled, you're going to be stuck with 14 days worth of storage fees for that backup.
And that recovery services vault will be in your account for 14 days.
So what I'm suggesting for testing purposes is you do want to disable the soft delete.
Now, again, the implication of this is if there's a hacker there going to be able to delete your virtual
machine if they get access to your account and they'll be able to delete the recovery services vault
so that even your backups will be deleted.
So this is an important security feature, but it does have implications when you're just doing testing
like we are.
So I'm going to say safe.
And with that done, we can go back to doing our first backup.
So if I go under getting started backups, we can see the types of things that can back up well, it
can back up azure virtual machines and we'll see that in a second.
It'll come back up Azure Stack.
So if you have your own hardware and you're running Azure stock and your on premises for a private cloud
environment, backup can work with that and it can work with on premises machines.
We choose on premises.
We can see there's a wide variety of backup styles.
We can backup the files and folders.
We can do virtual machines of Hyper V or VMware and the Microsoft server products like SQL Server,
SharePoint Exchange.
And we can even do bare metal, which goes underneath the operating system and backs up the full system.
That's a very low level backup.
We can choose files and folders.
You can choose multiple if we want.
Now, if we say prepare infrastructure, Azure is going to give us a piece of software to download as
the Windows client and it's going to back up that machine.
So if we have a server or client, we can download that.
And of course, we can get the credentials for this vault.
Then we scheduled a backup and once the backups are scheduled, we can monitor the backups, etc..
So this is a piece of software that will push its files into the cloud.
Let's not do on premises.
Let's switch over to Azure.
Now, with Azure, we have the option.
It's mostly for backing up virtual machines, but you'll see that there are a couple of virtual machines
that have SQL Server in them, for instance.
So this does not have this will be the backup for a database or SAP Azure file share can also be backed
up using the recovery services vault.
Now other Azure services, such as a sequel database or Cosmos DB and Azure storage accounts, they
have their own redundancy and backup methodology.
That is not this.
So, for instance, SQL database has a built in backup and you can recover to a point in time.
And that's just a feature that it comes with.
You don't do a backup of an Azure SQL database.
So let's say we want to do a backup of a Azur virtual machine.
Now, the first thing to know about that is there's this concept called a policy.
Now the policy specifies the frequency and the retention, how long it's being retained for.
So this backup is once a day at a 30 UTC and it'll be retained for 30 days at eight thirty a.m. as well.
So this is a storage account and you are being charged for the storage.
If you're keeping 30 days worth of backups, then you are keeping 30 times the storage of your virtual
machine.
This might be excessive for you, in which case you can create a new policy.
Now, you might think, no, I want to run it back up every 10 minutes.
That's not possible.
There is a maximum frequency for backups.
Now, once you've defined your policy, you can use the defaults or create a new one.
You're going to choose which virtual machine to backup.
Now, just before starting this video, I created a brand new virtual machine in the same region as
this recovery services vault.
So I'm going to say ad and I have a test virtual machine standing by.
And I can click, OK?
And if I wanted to do multiple of them, I can I can also do OS only backups, but when I click enable
backup, it's going to go out to this machine.
It's going to modify the configuration.
It's actually going to enable what's called a VM extension in order to perform the backup.
Now, the first backup is going to take a while.
So it's not like it's backed up in five minutes.
There is a significant delay in the first backup, but now I've set the process in motion.
When we come back to this later on, we're going to see that there will be a backup in here and then
we'll be able to delete it or recover it or things like that.
So I'm going to let that run.
Its in the process of refreshing here.
And that's how you do a backup of an Azure VM, I should say.
You can do it also from the VM.
If you go under the test VM, there's a backup setting and now I've already started it, but if I hadn't
started it we could see that we could set up a recovery services default rate from in here as well.
