So in this video, we're going to just go through the lab that we just talked about, so in the last
lesson of the course, it's called Hands on Practice.
And I linked you to an A-Z one of four lab from GitHub.
I should point out that this is an official Microsoft lab for their official training.
And so it is really good.
There are nine contributors to this.
And I wanted to say kudos and thank you to all nine people for creating a set of labs.
That's really interesting.
I do highly recommend you go through this.
So if you skipped over that and you just want to watch videos, please consider going to GitHub and
running through this.
The instructions are really clear in this video.
I'm going to go through the lab.
Oh, step by step.
It's going to be a long video.
Microsoft estimated 60 Minutes.
That's not too far off.
I was able to go through this in about forty five minutes and that's the length of the video.
So if you're interested in following along, this is the video.
If you had trouble with it, this is where I go through it myself successfully.
Otherwise you are able to skip this video.
So if you're in the enemy course and you're watching one of my videos and you're like, no, I this
is a 45 minute video.
There's this white box fully deployed and you can click it and it's checkmark comes up and you can skip
the video.
So if this isn't what you're looking for, that's great.
Skip the video, continue with the course.
Otherwise, we're going to go through this lab Line-by-line.
We're going to follow the instructions word for word, and we're going to end up with a hub and spoke
network with virtual network peering between the two spokes, between the spokes in the hubs.
I guess technically we're going to configure routing so that the spokes can talk to each other through
the hub and have them both a little bouncier and a gateway and be able to test that.
They're working lots of great stuff.
It's a long lab, but we cover a lot of the networking topics.
So thumbs up.
Now, the first task of this hands on lab us to go to the portal, sign in and get into Azure Cloud
Shell, as you know, as cloud shell, is this greater than underscore symbol in the top.
There's also a standalone version of Cloud Shell called shell dot azure dot com.
So you can basically sign into your azure account using this and you've basically got a full screen
version of Cloud Shell that's not dependent on the portal.
So you've got both options available to you.
Now, if we have to sign into Shell and we need to be in power, so now we do need to download the files
from the from the GitHub.
OK, so we're going to we're going to upload these files from GitHub into Cloud Show.
The way we do that is we're going to go and download the files, so if we go under up to here.
We can download a zip file that contains all of the labs, I can open it up and we know we're going
into Lab six, so I go all files, labs zero six.
And so I'm going to copy this 006 into my downloads directory.
So now I have this extracted from the zip file, so what it wants us to do is go back to the instructions
here.
What it wants us to do is upload those three files into the cloud show.
So I can switch over to the cloud so I can click, upload.
And go into the 06 and pick all three files and see upload.
And now it's uploaded.
So if I start, Jason, we can see the three files.
To this one at a time.
Thought it would be able to do all three at once.
OK, so we start out, Jason, we can see the three files for this lab.
Next, we need to create a resource group now I can copy the script here or place the region with the
region that we want.
I'm going to sort of compromise here.
I'm going to copy two lines of it, paste with shift insert.
And the location I'm going to use is I'm going to use East.
And so I'm just going to put it it's one word east us and we can see that the resource group succeeded.
Next, we want to go back to the instructions and we're going to deploy the armed template.
So this PVM parameter, Jason has the parameters, VMS template has the VMS.
OK, so this is going to create the first virtual network and deploy a pair of virtual machines into
it.
So the piece that in there and it's going to execute now, it's a long job of it, since this ashed
job parameter basically has fired that off and we've got our deployment started.
We have our command line back.
So we're just going to move along to the next one, we can see we're creating another resource group
here now.
I have not set this location property, so we're going to have to do the same trick where we see these
us that's created a second resource group and now we're going to deploy another virtual machine.
That's a different template, the same parameters.
Now we've got two jobs running, we're going to keep going, it's got a third resource group.
Used to us.
And it's going to deploy the same virtual machine that it did for the second group with the suffix.
Three, so now we've got three jobs running now says wait for the deployment to complete before proceeding
to the next task to verify the status of the to examine the properties of the resource groups she created
in this task.
So let's go to the portal and I'm going to go to all resource groups and we can see we've got three
resource groups going in each U.S. region.
We have gone to deployments.
It is still in a deploying state.
So we'll wait for this to complete deploying.
So while we're waiting for this to complete, we could go over to GitHub.
I'm going to
make a new tab here and we can go up to the let's go look at the JSON for the template.
So it's lab six.
We've got two templates and one parameters file.
So the first one we deployed is this VMS with a plural.
And when we open it, we see a number of parameters that are passed through, a number of variables
that are created and set, and we can look at the different resources.
So remember, with ALM templates, everything under this resource, this is where the actual work gets
created.
So we've got a set of virtual machines.
We've got a virtual machine here.
It depends on the network interface card.
So it doesn't get created until the network interface card does.
You've got a computer name, admin, password and username.
Hardware information.
You can see that it's deploying Windows 12 19 data center latest version.
Now we can see that
there is a virtual machine extension that's being installed, and that's the custom script extension.
A really interesting piece that's happening here is there's a power shell script installed embedded
in this template.
So you can see it says Command to execute.
Power shall see.
And then it runs a number of commands.
It's installing a Web server so you don't have to be in remote desktop into it to install.
I guess it is deleting a file.
It's deleting the Iast start home page and then it's adding a new eye start home page that says A String
Hello World and has the computer name.
So this is HTML Files is going to have these four words in it.
Let's say very interesting like script that's being passed in.
Would be interesting to see that work.
Great.
There's a second virtual machine in here every month.
Everything is pretty much the same again with the custom script that's being installed, virtual network
that's being created ten point sixty.
Let's go back to the portal refresh that succeeded.
Let's check the other groups deployments that succeeded and third group deployments.
So all three of our deployments have succeeded.
Now, if we go back to the instructions, we waited for the diplomacy to succeed and it says close the
clouds show so we're not going to use the cloud shell anymore.
And now we're going to go into the virtual networks and we're going to set up a peering relationship.
So this is setting up what's called a hub and spoke topology.
What that means is you've got one virtual network which is considered the hub.
If you think of the bicycle tire that is a hub and spoke.
So you've got one virtual machine at the center of the bicycle tire and then you've got other virtual
machines that are coming off of it.
And if one virtual machine wants to talk to another virtual machine, they need to go through the hub.
So this is not our set up exactly, but this is a good representation where you have one set of virtual
networks that connect to two, and if this one wants to connect to that one, it has to go through the
middleman.
And that's called Hub and spoke.
So the next instruction here then says we're going to add appearing from one to two, so we created
three virtual networks.
We're going to connect to one and two using a using appearing between them.
So we're going to go into resource group one.
We're going to go into.
Virtual network one,
and if we go down under settings, we can see parings, and right now this network is not paired with
any other network.
So we're going to click add and we do have to name the peering.
Now, the the instructions does suggest the name here.
So we're going to use that name.
Well, of course, use a resource manager model.
We're going to connect this to resource group, too, and we have to add the connection to the other
way.
So this is the backward connection.
So the name of this is two to one.
If you can see it's a zero one to two and this is two to zero one.
OK, we're going to enable two way communication and we're going to disable allowing two to connect
to two to forward traffic.
From two to one, but we're going to enable one to forward traffic to two, so this is if we go back
here, the Spok can forward traffic to one of the hubs, but the hub can't forward traffic to the Spok.
All right.
And we don't want Gateway Channel Transit.
OK, so we'll leave this unchecked.
And we have to wait for this corporation to complete, so this is going to establish two hearings,
we're going to see it listed here and one of them from one to two.
And if we went over to two, we would see two to one.
All right, so this little thing is telling me that the two to one is still deploying.
All right, that's succeeded.
Now we need to do the same thing we did from one to two, we're going to do from one to three.
OK, so we're screwed down here and we're going to basically add in one to three peering.
So same blade, one to three virtual network.
You can see that it's one of the only choices.
And then we have to name the reverse name three to one same.
We're allowing two way communication.
We are not allowing three to four traffic to one, but we are allowing wanted forward traffic to three.
And the gateway transit is unchecked.
So now we have the connection from two, two to one and the connection from two to three, and if one
wants to talk to three, it goes through two.
Next up, it wants to it wants to do a test, but the way to do the test is using network watcher's
connection troubleshooter.
So we'll do that next.
All right, so the instruction says go to network wotcher, which I see here, and what we're looking
for is the east U.S. region.
So that is where we are.
It is enabled, which is very good.
And we want to go down under here to network troubleshooter.
This is our subscription or going from Resource Group one, virtual machine zero specify manually,
according to the instructions here, Resource Group one VM zero specify manually.
That's the IP address PT. three three eight nine
four three three eight nine.
And we're going to check to see if.
If Resource Group one, virtual machine zero can connect to virtual machine to.
Right, according to this thing,
the initial check can take about two minutes because it requires installation in the virtual machine
agent.
All right, well, let's do it.
It's doing a deployment.
All right, and so after a couple of minutes, it says reachable, so this resource group one machine
zero is the hub, right?
So this is the central the central hub of this topology.
And what we've successfully done is we successfully communicated with a virtual machine in one of the
spokes.
OK, we need to do the same thing for this machine, which is in another of the spokes.
So I'm going to put that I.P. address out there and I'm going to see Chuck.
So that took less than a minute and we can see that this is reachable, the hub can connect to the other
Spok and so the peering relationship does exist.
Go back to the instructions, we can see that that's our intended result.
Now the third thing we're going to check is the connection between the two spokes.
But we're expecting in this first pass that it's not going to work because we've not yet set up the
IP forwarding between the two machines.
So we're going to go to the network.
Wotcher, and go from resource group Vimto to this IP address.
So here's this.
Go to Resource Group to Vimto to.
So this is to go from here to here.
Let's try that now, this agent does have to be installed on the new VM, I will give that a couple
of minutes.
So that's a very interesting result, it actually came back as unreachable, but like we said, this
is the expected result.
This is because even though the network was configured to allow forwarding, the virtual machines in
the middle are not set up.
So the network interface card and the operating system doesn't allow forwarding.
So you've got some devices that need to do some work here.
So what we're going to do next in this instructions are to configure it in the VM itself.
So we're going to go over to VM zero and we're going into the network interface card and we're going
to set IP forwarding to enabled.
So we've got a dashboard will go to one VM zero networking.
So click on the the network interface blade and then IPV configurations.
Like reconfigurations and so at the this is the this is the device in the middle.
And so it needs to have IP forwarding enabled and I can see save.
And then we need to run a power shall command.
In the VM itself, sorry to go back up to the VM, we're going to go down under operations and say run
command.
We want GreenPower Shell script.
And we're going to pass in this script, right?
And click right?
We have to wait for that to work,
so this command came back says success, true xcode success.
Now we do also need to run another command.
So I'm going to say run powerful script and the next commands.
We are going to be this group of them.
And so we can see what they're doing is they're installing routing as a Windows feature.
Installing Remote Access Power show is a Windows feature, then this VPN routing VPN and then updating
the Windows side of the network interface card to allow forwarding.
That's at least what I think it's doing there.
So let's let's just blindly run it.
So those commands came back, success and success.
So that's the expected result.
So there's still quite a lot if instructions to go through here.
We do need to now we have the networks that have got a lot that allow for.
We've got the virtual machine in the in the hub that will perform that task.
Now, we got to set up the routes.
OK, so there's a thing called a route table.
And this is what's going to tell Azur how traffic gets directed across across your account.
So I'm going to go into route tables.
I'm going to say create a round table.
And the instructions do come with a very specific road table to create.
So
this is going into the two resource group.
The Row Tables has that name.
We're going to put this in the East Coast region, same as everything else.
And we're going to say no to gate propagation.
So this is not going to broadcast.
It's this route.
And A.C. would be uncreate.
And then we're going to see it
now apparently takes about three minutes for this, so we're going to let that run.
So that did not take three minutes go into it.
The next construction has add another route.
And so we're going to we're going to basically tell we're going to tell the route that it's going to
have to forward the traffic through a virtual appliance.
So we go under route tables, under routes.
We add this route.
Give it a name, according to the instructions, this whole network has ten point sixty three address.
We're going to forward it to the virtual appliance and remember virtual appliances asking for it to
be forwarded to another network.
Now, we also have to associate this route to the virtual network, so associate with this with the
Venette to virtual network and subnet zero.
So it created one room table that has one a wrote on it.
We do need to create a second round table, so we'll see.
And we're going to put this into the research group three, which is the other subnet over here.
And I'm going to put this in the East USC, same as what I've been using.
And we're going to call this room table, this.
So the instructions are for this round table, actually, don't say to turn off the propagation, you
see that that requirement does not exist here and it says leave others with their default values.
And so we're going to leave this propagation on.
And then I can see create.
Now, the round table without the route isn't going to be very useful, so we're going to create the
route.
And if we go to the resources credit already going to route's say, and give it a name, the address
prefix is 62 virtual network appliance and we're going to the DOT 60 network virtual machine.
All right, then we have to associate this with the Venette three subnet.
Associate Venette three, subnet zero.
All right, now we go back to the connection troubleshoot and we're going to check to go from Vimto.
To the ten point sixty three subnet.
Then, which is which?
So, again, this diagram doesn't say the eyepiece correctly, but we're going to go testing from here
to here.
So let's go to the dashboard, let's go to network, wotcher.
Make sure these tools are still enabled to go the connection troubleshooter, and this time we're going
to, according to the instructions, go from resource group to Vimto to this address.
Ashrafi manually three three eight nine, which is already port.
Now, the results of this is going to tell us either it's reachable or if it doesn't work, then it's
going to stay unreachable.
And so we should restart VM if it's as unreachable.
And it comes back and says it's reachable so we can get from PVM to over here to Veum three over here
through PVM one.
The numbers are wrong in this diagram, but anyways, pretty good.
Now there's more to this, right?
So now they want us to implement
Azure Virtual Machine, a load balancer.
I mean, not a larger version which a load balancer in front of the two virtual machines in the hub.
OK, so we're going to create a new resource group.
Create a load balancer.
And with these four properties right so low here, dashboard
resource groups create a new one.
These choices are tends to be our region.
And then in four, we're going to create load balancer.
We could have created the resource group in here now their instructions do say that there's a name and
a public IP address, name, public school, OK, going to create this at least.
Public is standard, and then the public IP addresses that.
All right.
Didn't like that.
Availability zone, so the answer is zone redundant.
For that, it's quick, we can go to resource, the next requirement is to set up the back pool and
so we're going to we're going to put the Zero and Veum one into a load balancer.
There are a name for this, this.
And we're going to put zero and one
into the low bouncer.
All right, and.
We're going to create a health probe to report any.
So that was done, we go into make sure it's.
Make sure they're both running, we create a health probe port eighty five and two, those are the settings
that we want
and say, OK, and then we need a little bouncing words.
This is what's going to determine how the traffic is distributed.
So we're going to take traffic and Port Authority forward it to Port 80.
Yeah.
There's the name, front and IP address by the default traffic from Port 80 to Port 80 to the back end,
pull one health, one session, persistance, none, four minutes idle timeout.
Disabled, disabled.
And yes.
So those are the settings from here.
All right, so we're going to wait for this world to be created.
Now, this is the real test, right?
So we have this public IP address, which I can just copy, I expect when I go to the public IP for
this, I'm going to be presented with one server or the other.
Now, the interesting thing about this code, remember, we saw the in the power show in the arm template
here that it should say hello world and have the computer name as part of it.
If this didn't work and it just shows me that the default, it's not necessarily a failure.
So let's open a new tab.
Let's put in the IP address and now it says hello world from one, OK?
Now the instructions want us to try private mode browsing to see that the that's going to change.
So I'm going to see.
It's over here, incognito window.
So that says zero and that says one.
So I'm super excited it's been successful so far and kudos to the people that contributed to this and
to who wrote it.
Microsoft has always been a very developer friendly company, lots of free documentation, and this
is no exception.
The last task here is to implement an application.
We now go back to our our diagram here.
It's going to put an application gateway in front of these two virtual machines running on the spokes.
So there's one of them over here, one VM over there.
And the application gateway is basically going to be in front of both of them.
So what we're going to do is this should hopefully be very, very quick.
We're going to create a new application, Gateway Subnet in Venette one.
So go up to the Dashboard Resource Group one Venette one subnets.
We've got zero, we got one.
And we're going to have application Gateway.
This one is going to be ten point sixty three.
OK, everything else with the values, so no no security, no table, none, none.
All right.
Brand new subnet.
And then we're going to create an application.
Gateway paying.
Refresh this, we've got that their
application gateways create.
Resource Group five is a new resource group.
And this is the kettling name, Standard V to.
All three of liberty zones.
All right.
There's the name I'm going to put this in the same region as the others e us, not us killing, not
enabled.
We only need one.
We'll put it into all three zones, disabled being at zero one.
We created a brand new application, Kiwi subnet and the front end tab.
It's going to be a public
public one go down here.
So there's a new public IP address.
On the back in town, we're going to create a new backyard pool.
It has a name and we're going to put 62, four and sixty three Darfor in there.
IP address 10, 62 and 10, that 63, those are the two VMS running in the two spokes.
All right,
next up, we have the routing, so we need to have a writing rule, there'll be a rule and a listener
on Port 80.
There's the rule, there's the listener when public ip htp bayti meaning, all right.
OK, on the back and targets tab, we're just going to pick our backyard pool.
We need to add a new HP setting for Port 80.
And we're going to disable affinity.
So there's a name, any disabled, disabled, 20.
At.
And now we can see, review and create.
And then we're going to wait for the gateway to be created.
Hopefully, this is it.
I mean, thank you guys for sticking in here, if you've made it this far, we are going to have to
get the public IP address of the application gateway and we'll test it.
So go to Resource Group, go to the gateway.
We've got the front end IP address.
We're going to paste that in there.
So remember, we are testing the spokes, so two and three, so Ventoux responded.
To responded, and there's three, so we have successfully gone through Lab six of this of is in one
of four, last step is to delete all the resources, which which is always a good idea because as you
can see, costs can start to run away.
If you're on a Pacyga plan, you start these up, you go for dinner, you go to sleep, you come back
the next day, things start to to run up.
So I'm for this one.
I'm just going to open up the cloud SQL in the browser here.
And I'm going to copy the command here, which will.
Well, this is going to list them.
And we can see the resource groups and this command list them and the pipes, the result into remove.
Well, say goodbye to all that work.
I find that it does that sometimes.
But anyway, we can see there's a bunch of jobs running, it's done some stuff in the background here.
So if I do close this, we will start to see.
The five resource curse that we created, we'll start to have the resources deleted and the research
groups themselves will disappear.
Thank you so much for checking this out.
Hopefully that helped you.
I highly recommend GitHub.
Microsoft Learning for the is one of four labs.
This is a good way.
We spent forty five minutes here going through this and if you do this all on your own, it's a good
45 minutes of practicing with the azure, especially if you take the time to read the arm templates
and understand what's going on.
Try to picture in your head how resources are talking to each other when something works, why it works,
where the traffic is traveling from the hub to the spokes and then back, etc..
