 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clappers and welcome to this lecture. 
 Well congratulations you are at the second last lecture in the entire course and you've done really 
 really well and you've gone through in this section you've created your own service website using API 
 Gateway and using lambda and then we've also gone on and create an Alexis skill. 
 And don't worry if you couldn't get any of those labs to work you'd really just need to understand what 
 lambda is and what API Gateway is at a high level. 
 I definitely go back and watch the API lecture in the application section just so you get a better grip 
 on it. 
 But in terms of what you need to know for this section of the course and what you need to know for your 
 exam you need to remember the different types of architectures within the cloud. 
 So I like to call it Cloud 1.0. 
 This is the more traditional approach. 
 This is where you've got your elastic load balancer at the front end you then got your easy two instances 
 so these would be your web servers and then they're storing data in a traditional database like RDX. 
 So that's a very traditional architecture it still is highly available if you make it that way and it 
 can tolerate failure if you architect it correctly but it is limited in how much it can scale yes you 
 can have auto scaling groups but where you're really going to start bottle necking out is your RDX instances. 
 And again it really depends like if you are using Aurora it probably won't bottle bottleneck out as 
 much as if you were just using a T2 micro with my sequel. 
 But you know it is not as scalable as servile as architecture. 
 So service architecture typically would consist of API Gateway lambda function and then dynamo IDB on 
 the back end and you are going to be given a whole bunch of scenario quizzes and then you basically 
 ask what is the best way to architect this from both a high availability point of view as well as a 
 cost saving point of view and it really should be going for the service architecture model so API Gateway 
 lambda dynamo DP. 
 So in terms of my exam tips for lambda just remember that it scales out not up automatically so if you 
 have five triggers let's say five people upload five different images an S three bucket that's going 
 to trigger five separate lambda functions at any given time lambda functions are independent. 
 So one event equals one function. 
 Remember that lambda is service know what services are serving this RDX is not service with the exception 
 of Aurora services lambda functions can trigger other lambda functions so one event can actually equal 
 10 functions or twenty functions or 50 functions or even a million different functions if functions 
 are triggering other functions. 
 Also remember that architectures can start getting extremely complicated AWOL X-ray allows you to debug 
 what is happening inside your service application and that's all you really need to know about x ray 
 for the exam just know what it is and then lambda can do things globally so you can use it to backup 
 S3 Buckets to other S3 Buckets you can configure your functions to run at a particular time of day at 
 a particular time of weeks are sort of like cron you can do a whole bunch of things with Lambda Lambda 
 is a global service and really go in there knowing your triggers or even better know what can't trigger 
 lambda so that is it for this section of the course in the next section I'm going to wish you best of 
 luck and I'm going to show you how you can book your exams you guys have done really really really well 
 I hope you've had a lot of fun doing this course I have had a lot of fun teaching it do remember that 
 we are a third party training company so if you see something in the exam that the course hasn't covered 
 please let us know and I'll update the course straight away so keep being all some flowers ah see in 
 the next section and best of luck on your exam.