So far in this course, we've seen with our aid, we have the concept of users, users having roles
and groups and those things having permissions to perform some actions.
So one element of security that Microsoft has been improving over the last couple of years is the concept
of access reviews.
The concept of access refuses effectively going back and looking at your groups and your roles and your
users and ensuring that all the permissions are still in line with your expectations, just as if we
have a configuration of a virtual machine that can drift over time called configuration drift, you
can also have permissions that drift over time as well.
So to get to access reviews, first of all, you need to be on a premium plan.
I've upgraded to a trial version here so I can show it to you.
But if you're on the free tier, Vacherie don't believe you have access to this.
It is.
The interface has also changed recently.
It is now under identity governance.
And so we click on identity governance were taken into a new section of Azure.
So identity governance contains these three features, one of them being entitlement management, which
is sort of automation's of access lifecycle.
Very interesting concept.
Another one is access reviews, which are talking about in this video, and the third is just in time
access for administration.
So you don't have somebody who's an administrator 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
They only upgrade to it for the moment that they need to perform an administrative action.
So we're talking about access reviews.
We can also see along the left here, Access Reviews has its own section.
Now, by default, when I go into it, it says Tenet has not on board for Axis reviews feature.
This is quite straightforward.
There's an on board button here.
And so we're going to basically have to register for this program.
Access reviews, again, allow you to increase visibility of who has access to what, ensure that your
guests users are still need to have access and make sure group memberships and application rules are
still proper.
So I'm going to click the on board now button so we can see there's deployment going on.
And now I've been kicked out of Azure I.D. and Access Reviews has been on board it.
I can just go back to Azure and go back to identity governance.
And the message about onboarding has gone away and now the button for onboarding has gone away as well.
We can go under access reviews now.
I don't have any access reviews currently.
Now, I could certainly go and create one.
Now, why would you want to do access reviews?
Well, it is possible that over time, as a users change roles within an organization, we all know
that over the course of several years people had one job, their job slightly changed.
They move over to the other floor, they take on a new responsibility and they get added the rights
to that new responsibility.
But it's less common that those old rights get taken away from it.
And so you end up with a snowball effect and accumulation of rights.
You might have administrative users that, you know, you started out with only three or four.
But over time, you you ended up having people go on vacation.
People fill in for other roles.
You end up with seven, eight, nine administrative type users.
And maybe that's a security hole as well.
Also, over time, programs change and applications change and groups change.
So you might be part of the accounting department and accounting group within Azure ad, but the permissions
that the accounting group need may no longer be what they once were.
And so the concept of axis review is that somebody has to go and take ownership of those individual
elements, such as groups or users, and ensure that the access that they do have is still proper.
So let's go under access reviews.
We don't have any we can certainly go to create what?
I'm going to say new axis review, we have to give it a name, so I'm going to see first review.
First view of this feature.
Now, axis reviews have a start and end date, and so let's say this is the type of thing that you might
do once a year or once every six months, we can see there's a frequency drop down.
A certainly weekly would be excessive, in my view.
A monthly still might be a bit frequent, but certainly quarterly to have the manager of a team of,
let's say the manager has five direct reports, have them go and review the access to their entire team
once a quarter is certainly not an unreasonable request.
And so you set the frequency of the review and of course, it's going to then give you twenty five days
to perform the review.
So if, let's say, January, April, June and September are the times when you do your axis reviews,
then those managers do have time to perform them and you can give them more time and give them less
time.
Again, this can happen in perpetuity.
You can just say we're going to do axis reviews quarterly and with no end date.
Now, what are you reviewing your other review, people who belong to a group like the members of the
accounting group in this example, or people who have access to a specific application, you may want
to review only the guest users or review even the company employees.
We do have to select a group.
So in our previous example, we had.
Let's call it a supervisor's group, we want to review the membership in that group, who does the review?
Well, the group owner is typically going to be the one assigned to review the membership of the group.
Now, in terms of what the access involves, there's a thing called a program, and we'll get into that
in the next video.
So we've performed the Axis review, what do we want to happen once the program is completed and let's
say the reviewers didn't respond?
So do we want to remove access to the members or the reviewers that didn't respond?
Do we want to continue access, no change to their access so we basically can determine unreviewed users
will be reviewed by the system.
And let's say the reviewer reviews the access and they deny the access.
They say, you know what, Joe no longer needs to be part of this group.
What do we want to happen there?
We're going to remove Joe or disable his access to the group.
There are some advanced settings we can require a reason we can have an email to the members of the
owners to basically say Axis review has started and the admins, when the reviews are completed, remind
your system you can see mandatory company review.
As per CEO, you know, you can threaten people to do these reviews and so Looking Start will basically
start the process of the review according to the schedule and the frequency that you have decided.
So let's say I don't want this review and to start till October.
So then even just clicking start is not going to kick off the review.
