So we've seen with rule based access control or auerback, you're able to restrict the permissions granted
to certain roles and those users who are assigned to those roles.
And in this way, you're able to enforce your company policy on who does or does not have access to
resources onto Azure.
Now, that's auerback.
Now there are other, more sophisticated ways of implementing governance upon Azure.
One is called Azure policy and we can see it on screen.
We can also search for the word policy and you'll be given the policy service.
Now, the concept of Azure policy is that you can either choose from hundreds of predefined policies
or even create your own, and we'll do that in a second.
But we can see here we go under definitions that there are you can scroll down, you'll be able to scroll
down for days.
There are literally hundreds of predefined policies.
Now, what are these policies?
You can see policies relating to almost all of the Azure services.
So let's say we want to restrict who has access to SQL Server.
I'm going to pull out this say we can read it.
So I just entered SQL Server in search and we can see that one of the processes deploy threat detection
on SQL servers, deploy advanced data security on SQL servers.
So this is a policy that you can implement that basically says all SQL servers on this subscription
must have threat detection enabled.
So if I click on it, I can see that it is a JSON definition and similar to an armed template.
This is predefined format and it kind of readable.
We can see if the type equals Microsoft Escuela servers deploy, if not exists, security alert policy
and make sure it's enabled and that the rule definition is here.
We can see the deployment template, the army template is embedded as well in terms of deploying a security
alert policy.
So it's a template wrapped within almost like an if then statement, as we can see here.
So you can basically have a rule that says all civil service must have this and not only make that a
rule, but you can enforce that rule.
If your interests are in virtual machines, for instance, you can type in virtual machine and you can
see a label as your monitor for VM skill sets, Azure backup should be enabled for virtual machines.
And so these are just built in policies that you can choose from and you can either enforce it or you
can just audit it.
Auditing it would just make it show up on a report.
And then you can take manual action to determine if, in this case, a virtual machine is even qualified
to have encryption and what you're going to do about it.
So sometimes you just want to audit a policy and not enforce it.
But that's all you can create your own policy.
So if this is not quite right, let's see, any one of these builtin policies is just a little bit off
of what you want.
You can create a policy definition of your own.
So as your policy basically is pretty cool that allowing you to enforce these very creative, complex
rules upon your Azure account.
