The last topic in this section has to do with managing secrets within Asia, and I don't know about
you, but whenever I hear the word Azur and the word secrets in the same sentence, my first thought
is to assure key vault, as it should be now, as your secret vault basically specializes in storing
secrets.
Now, the old metaphor, if you go back, you know, 10 years in software development, then what you
would do is you would have a string within your application, hard coded string that was a user I.D.
and password to some other system or a secret key or a token that you're supposed to use to connect
to something.
That stuff is stored either right in the code or in a variable in the app config or the web config file.
Now, other systems have been developed in those times that will dynamically replace those app config
and web config values as the bill process goes, from development to testing to production, thereby
keeping the production secrets more secret from your development team, from your team and from code
that gets accidentally exposed to the world.
But anyways, as your vault is here and it's sort of added an additional layer of security on top of
that.
So as your key vault is basically an area that you can use to store your secrets again, keys, strings
or security certificates and only users or applications that have been specifically granted access can
retrieve those secrets.
And so you have the secret basically removed from the code.
And only code that remains is the go get me the secret SDK called to the Azure key vault.
Now, as your keyboard does have some additional features that might be useful.
There's a concept of a HSM or hardware security module.
A hardware security module is a piece of hardware that is used for generating random numbers effectively
that make security more secure.
The one of the worst things you can do in security is have a random number generator where the random
numbers it generates are predictable in a certain order.
And so a lot of stuff went into salting these things.
And eventually now we have hardware security that ensures that the randomization is not part of the
chip.
DIW is not subject to the whims of a programming algorithm.
That's an option for Covault if you want your security certificates to be that level of security.
Now, that is an extra cost, of course.
So let's create Kiva and then we can sort of see how to store secrets into it.
First thing you need to do is create it and you go into a marketplace, you find out what you say,
create we've put into a resource group.
So I'm going to put this into A-Z, Sidiki.
It does need to have a name.
I'm going to give you the same name.
It's going to check to see if that name is unique.
So because this is going to be the basis for a YAL when you go to use APIs in this case to access the
secrets, I'm going to place this in EU US now.
We do have the option for standard tier.
And like I said, the hardware support is extra costs and that's in the premium tier.
Soft delete is always listed as an option that means that no one can go, any hacker or malicious person
cannot go in and delete your secrets, thereby making it almost impossible for you to restore your application
in the event of a hat.
And so this has been enabled by default and see here unable to modify it.
You need to create your keyboard using partial or Seelie in order to create a keyboard without it.
And in the future you won't be able to turn off soft delete how many days the delete gets stored.
So that means if anyone deletes your vault or deletes your secret, it's still going to be around for
90 days, purge protection.
So basically, do we want the ability to stop secrets from being deleted, right.
For this 90 day retention?
Remember I said the key vote, one of the things that makes it secure is you have to specifically grant
access to applications and individuals to get access to key votes.
And so key votes here is asking for permission basically to have virtual machines to have their security
certificates stored in key vault resource manager.
You can when you create an armed template, you can actually specify a key vault value in the armed
template.
Deployment process will grab the value from key vault azure disk encryption.
So no, you can have Azure managed keys or customer managed keys.
And so we have to enable this for this key vault as well.
We can basically have an access policy or using our back rule based access control.
We have to create an access policy.
Right now, the only person that accesses myself, I have all the core permissions from get list update
creates.
I don't have any permissions for purge, I don't have any permissions against the cryptographic keys,
encrypt, decrypt, verify, etc..
And with secrets, I can do anything, get list set, delete, recover, back up, restore, but I can't
do that ultimate purge.
And the same with certificates, all the core ones, except for perche, those are the default access
policies.
Now, what is common against Microsoft Azure is whether you want your Covault to have a public endpoint,
which means even on the Internet, if you have the right API call with the right security, you should
be able to access the contents of the key vault or whether you want to limit this to a virtual network
or whether you want to make it a private endpoint.
And then you would have to use the link center to set up the connections.
We'll leave it as public, which is the default.
And I'm going to say so at the end of this, we're going to have a key vote that allows us to go in
and create these keys and the key secrets are going to create and we come back, we will get into this
and see what kind of secrets we can create.
