So let's head into our Kivel now that the plemons complete, so as we saw, our Covault was given a
public endpoint.
So this is the URL.
If any of my code was to need to go to the vault to retrieve a secret.
This is how the basis of the connection and we can talk about how to connect code to the key vault.
The real heart of it here is the keys, secrets and certificates.
So the secret is probably the simplest to explain.
If we go into Under Secrets, you'll see by default there are no secrets.
A secret can be any string that your application wants to protect from a limited number of people to
view.
Typically, this is going to be some type of API key or a secret key.
When you're working with public APIs, they're often they give you some sort of secret that you include
in your requests and then you're going to take the key from the key vault and use that when you're calling
the public API.
And so we could say there's some to generate an import option, we can create a secret is a manual secret.
In this case, I'm going to call this API key and then the secret itself can be sort of A one, B to
C three, D for you five.
You can put whatever secret value you want in there.
You can also call it, you know, this is like an API key however you want to call it.
Now, secrets can have a start and end dates.
So if the secret is only good for 30 days, you could certainly set it up to start and end in that period.
Typically, you don't do this and of course, secrets can be valid or invalid.
And so it's going to be enabled by default.
And so now I have a secret called APIC netcode and my other types of code can call into the vault with
the right permissions and be able to retrieve whatever the value of the API key is.
So that's pretty straightforward.
The other two types of things you can store in the vault, as we said, were public private keys, like
if you've got an SS H key or any kind of private key that is used for signing things would be stored
in here.
You can generate yourself a key.
So Azure has added in the past year or so the ability to generate a fresh key.
So I'm going to call this a key one.
And you can you can choose the type RSA, the key size, you know, depending on how secure you want
that to be.
Same features start an end date enabled and see a create.
So the key has been successfully created.
Now, I can't download it, but in order for me to use it, if my application needed to call to get
an access key in order to access something, then it can call into the vault and retrieve that with
the right permissions.
All of these secrets are versioned so that we know, which is let's say we need to update this Osiecki.
There's a thing called a new version and we can replace it and add a new one, etc. So we get the private
key metaphore here.
Last one, our security certificates.
Now, security certificates are used for HTP s or SSL.
When you're talking about having conversation between the two servers, you may want to use a certificate
metaphore so that you know that the server that's making the request is has been recognized and authorized
by a certificate authority.
And you can validate who you are based on having created a certificate.
You can also give certificates to clients and those clients.
The positional certificate proves that they are authorized.
So this is an alternative to passwords effectively.
So, again, Azure has the ability to generate SSL or security type certificates you can also import.
So if you have a certificate, let's say you go to a certificate authority, you get your domain name,
one example dot com, you get the SSL certificate for that, you can import that certificate into Covault.
Give this a name.
I'm going to call this SSL cert.
In this case, we don't have a certificate authority and so it's going to be self signed.
Otherwise we would have to go to a respected, recognized third party and get them to sign a certificate.
Now, this is where you if you're going to create a domain name certificate, you're going to have to
put the details of the domain here.
So like, you know, example dot com and you give it a validity period.
You use one of the two algorithms here for signing it if it automatically renew.
So once you create a certificate and gevalt, it can at 75, 80, 90 percent of its lifetime, renew
and get a new one or just set everyone in email.
So give me a 80 percent.
When it hits 80 percent, send an email to to to me to let me know that it's about to expire.
So as we can see here, it's quite easy to create secrets here.
Now all you need to do then is to have your application connected to the vault to retrieve the secret.
