Now, one of the downsides to having a system assigned managed identities is that it's just going to
create a new identity for every application.
And so if you're in an environment where you have 20, 30, 50, 100 Web applications, you're going
to end up with that many managed users and you're going to have to manage the permissions for all of
them.
And if you mix something up and it's it becomes confusing the more something that you have.
So one thing that Azur gives you is the ability to create your own managed identities.
And then you can reuse those identities on common resources, you probably don't want to create a user
assigned manager identity that is so powerful and then assign it to applications that don't need that
type of permissions.
But if you had a webcam and a Web server identity and all your Web apps only need this level of permissions,
it's probably going to save you a lot of, you know, administrative effort.
Now, unfortunately, you can't just add a user assigned identity if you don't have one already and
manage identities is actually a separately is a separate app within Azure, so tipped to the Azure folks,
you could put a link of managed identities right from here.
But anyways, you go into the search type and managed ID and you'll get to manage identities.
Now, I don't have any managed identities, but you can certainly hit the button.
You do have to put this into a resource group.
I'm going to put this back into the same Kiva group and you do give them an identity and name.
So this is called let's call it all Web apps user.
I can put tags on it, but generally I'm not going to click review and create.
That's pretty instantaneous, but man's identity by itself, it doesn't give you anything until you
do two things.
One is you're going to need to go into your app song and go back to my app into identity.
And I'm going to have to switch from system assigned identity to a this all Web apps identity that we
created.
And now that I've done that, I'm going to have to start to assign permissions to this users, to the
various resources, so we've got this user, we go back to our key vault, for instance.
Under access policies, we could add.
The all Web apps user as the service principle and give that service principle, the read and the list
permissions to the secrets.
So really, we're we're looking at either individual identities for all your apps, which is a managed
system, identity or user identities, which you can then assign the same identity to all the apps that
need it.
And it makes it administratively easier for you to manage.
