Now, the last two videos we talked about is the user on which the application is using resources within
Azure and how you assign promotions to that.
But we've talked about Azure, our trajectory being a great place for applications to use identity as
a service.
This is where you get your single sign on.
This is where applications can basically store their identity stuff in Azure instead of having to create
their own.
So in this video, let's talk about registering that application in Azure for that ability.
So you go into your Azure active directory under app registrations.
Now, I don't have this is owned applications.
So right now, you've got basically no applications registered under under myself as the owner, but
there are various other applications over the years that I've registered in here.
So we're going to see new registration and we're going to have to give this application a name.
So if this is called the key vault sample at.
And who can use this application, so it's basically users that are part of this directory, tenent,
or in a multitenant situation, any account or in a you know, this is the B to C, which is Microsoft
accounts, Skype, Xbox, etc., or force them to use Microsoft accounts for authentication.
So let's just say users in this organization, this is the single sign on approach.
And where is the response of this going to go?
So we're going to have to get now the application.
The application has a wall, but where am I going to redirect somebody who successfully registers now?
I'm going to have to, you know, code this so that it accepts the response back from active directory
on this type of URL.
But basically, just filling out this basic information, I am going to be given some application I.D.
and secret keys basically.
For this application.
So now if I'm coding this Internet, I can I can basically store my users in Azure Active Directory
because I've registered the application into dot net.
And basically we can see there's going to be things about authentication, how who owns this application,
what the various roles are.
Once you've got your application registered, you are unlocking some additional basically features within
Azure Active Directory.
