 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay hello bloggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're all going to learn about Elastic 
 Compute Cloud or ECD too. 
 And so this will be a theoretical lecture in the rest of this section of the course it's extremely hands 
 on we're going to be going into the eight obvious cons. We're going to be provisioning easy two instances 
 were going to be SS hatching into them and we're going to be turning them into little web servers. 
 So you are going to learn an awful lot. 
 But before we do that we should learn what E.C. too is so what is easy to. 
 Well basically it's a web service that provides rich sizable compute capacity in the cloud and it reduces 
 the time that it takes to obtain and boot new server instances two minutes allowing you to quickly scale 
 capacity both up and down as your computing requirements change. 
 Now I was around for I've been in tech for quite a while and I remember a time before W.S. came along 
 when if you placed an order for a web server or a database server there were actually physical servers 
 and certainly when I worked at Rackspace that was definitely the case and it would take anywhere from 
 10 days to do a deployment sometimes up to 20 days. 
 And at other companies I worked for a B six months before we could deploy those resources. 
 And of course when you were paying for these you were paying for the servers up front. 
 Now we could advertise the cost over a monthly basis but you still had huge capital expenditure and 
 if you weren't using these Web servers you still had to pay. 
 And then Amazon ACTU came along you were able to provision virtual machines in the cloud at this like 
 seriously the click of a button and we'll be ready within a couple of minutes. 
 And it just changed the entire world. 
 So how is easy to priced. 
 Well if you've done these certified cloud practitioner course you will remember in it we had a pricing 
 section and we looked at a particular white paper called AWOL pricing overview. 
 Now don't where you don't actually need to read this white paper for the certified Solutions Architect 
 associate but it does have a principle that basically applies across all of eight of us. 
 And the conclusion the White Paper says while the number and types of services offered by AWB have increased 
 dramatically. 
 Our philosophy on pricing has not changed. 
 You pay as you go you pay for what you use. 
 You pay less as you use more and you pay even less. 
 When you reserve capacity so easy to has a number of different pricing models we've got on demand and 
 this allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour or even by the second with no long term commitments. 
 So you can literally just spin it up have it running for a couple of hours and then terminate the instance. 
 And this is great for developers because you can go and test an environment see if it works and then 
 you go in shut it down. 
 I couldn't imagine a world where that was not possible. 
 You know just 20 years ago you would have to go in and provision big physical servers. 
 You'd have to have the money to do it and it means all these little start ups that are operating on 
 a shoestring budget could not have taken their product to market. 
 So you know AWB has changed the world by introducing on demand pricing for virtual machines. 
 We then have reserved and this is basically provides you with a capacity reservation and it offers a 
 significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. 
 And the contract terms are one year or three years. 
 So this is where you're going to contract with eight of us to either a one year or three year term. 
 And the more you pay upfront the more you're going to save. 
 So we then have spot instances and this is basically where Amazon have excess capacity so not everyone's 
 using AC two at once. 
 And what they do is they drop the prices of their AC two instances to try and get people to use that 
 capacity. 
 However when you know other people are provisioning on demand or other AC two instances and they run 
 out of capacity they will want that capacity back. 
 So the price moves around with Spot instances is exactly like the stock market it goes up and down and 
 basically you set the price that you want to bid at if it hits that price you have your instances if 
 it goes above that price then you're going to lose your instances within a couple of minutes. 
 So it moves around a lot and we'll look at the use cases for that in a couple of slides then have dedicated 
 host. 
 These are physical easy to servers that are dedicated to you and this can help you reduce costs by allowing 
 you to use your existing server boundless software licenses. 
 So if you've got some really strict licensing conditions with Oracle for example you might want to be 
 using dedicated hosts. 
 Again we'll look at the use cases to that coming up. 
 So we'll start with on demand and on demand pricing is useful for users that want the low cost and flexibility 
 of Amazon's easy to without any upfront payment or long term commitments. 
 It's also good for applications with short term spiky or unpredictable workloads that cannot be interrupted 
 and applications that are being developed or tested on for Amazon's easy to for the first time. 
 And we're basically going to be using on demand for the rest of this course. 
 So we're gonna provisionally see two instances and then when we're finished we're going to go in terminate 
 them. 
 Moving on to reserve pricing. 
 This is useful for applications with steady state or predictable usage applications that require a reserve 
 capacity and users are able to make upfront payments to reduce their total computing costs even further 
 and reserved pricing comes in a number of different types. 
 So we've got our standard reserved instances and these offer up to 75 per cent off on demand instances. 
 And the more you pay up front and the longer the contract the greater the discount. 
 We've got convertible reserved instances and we're going to come to this but basically the way E2 works 
 is you have a virtual machine but you have different types of virtual machines so you'll have ones that 
 are very high ram with Ram utilization where you have ones that have very very good CPE use and you 
 can pick and choose and called incidence types. 
 Now it's standard reserved instances. 
 You can't convert one reserved instance to another so if you get a T2 and you want to go over to an 
 R for or something like that you can't do that with standard with convertible you can. 
 So it allows you to change between your different instance types. 
 We then have scheduled reserved instances and these are available to launch within the time windows 
 that you reserved so maybe you run a school or something like that and when everyone comes in at 9:00 
 on logs then you need to scale you know for two hours while you do the log in so you can actually schedule 
 having reserved instances to a specific time window. 
 So those are the three different types of reserve pricing so spot pricing like I said this is Amazon's 
 selling off their excess capacity at a lower rate. 
 So it's useful for applications that have flexible start and end times. 
 So if Amazon suddenly want that capacity back and you're not going willing to pay a certain price what 
 will happen is those easy two instances will be terminated. 
 So it's useful for applications that are only feasible at very very low compute prices and it's useful 
 for users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity. 
 And then finally we have our dedicated host pricing and that's useful for the regulatory requirements. 
 So it might be that the government says that you cannot support multi tenant virtualization. 
 You have to used dedicated hosts. 
 It's also great for licensing which does not support multi tenant virtualization or cloud deployment 
 so if you've got some really harsh Oracle licensing for example you might want to use dedicated hosts 
 and you can also be purchased on demand so you can actually pay for your dedicated hosts by the hour 
 and they can be purchased as a reservation as well for up to 70 per cent of 70 percent off of the on 
 demand price. 
 So I mentioned before that we have all these different AC two instances so these are all the available 
 instances today. 
 Now don't worry you're never going to be tested on a particular type of incident certainly not the certified 
 solutions architect associate exam where you will start getting this is at the professional level they'll 
 give you a bunch of scenario questions and then they'll ask you what type of instance would best suit 
 your needs. 
 Okay. 
 So let's run through these we'll start with f 1. 
 So this is for field programmable gate arrays and the use cases for this is things like genomic research 
 financial analytics real time video processing big data etc. If you don't know what FP G is. 
 Go ahead and look it up it's really interesting stuff. 
 Effectively it allows the chips to be reprogrammed after being manufactured so that we rewired in a 
 sense but it's completely beyond the scope of this course. 
 But it is interesting tech moving on to AI. 
 So we've got the AI 3s. 
 These are high speed storage and these are used for things like no secret databases data warehousing 
 etc. then got G3. 
 These are graphics intensive and these are used for things like video encoding 3D applications streaming 
 et cetera. 
 We've got h ones. 
 These are high disk throughput is useful for things like mass produce based workloads distributed file 
 systems such as DFS and map R F S we then have a T 3s. 
 These are our lowest cost a general purpose you know instances and we're going to be using the T 3s 
 throughout the rest of this course. 
 And typically the use case for that is web servers small databases et cetera. 
 Got D2. 
 These are dense storage. 
 These are used for file servers data warehousing and Hadoop got five. 
 These are memory optimized and these are useful for memory intensive apps or databases. 
 We then have M5. 
 This is for general purpose use and typically use this for application servers C5. 
 These are compute optimized and these are going to be useful for CPSU intensive applications and databases 
 get our p 3s. 
 These are graphics or general purpose GP use. 
 These are good for things like machine learning or bitcoin mining etc. then got our x1. 
 These are memory optimized and these are useful for things like SAP HANA Apache Spark etc. We have ze 
 1 D. 
 These are high compute capacity and high memory footprint and they're ideal for electronic design automation 
 so ADHD and certain relational database workloads with high per core licensing costs. 
 We then have our ones. 
 These are ARM based workloads and this is useful for scale out workloads for things like web servers 
 arms as arm is just basically a cheaper type of CPSU so it's useful for ARM based workloads. 
 We then have our use 6 TB one and these are used for bare metal so don't worry. 
 You don't need to understand what each instance is and does for the certified Solutions Architect associate 
 exam when you do go on to do dev ops pro or essay Pro. 
 You will have to understand this a little bit better. 
 It is good to learn it now though and to help you learn. 
 I've just made a new monarch said there's been so many new monarchs over the years but this year for 
 the 2019 new monarch we've got f for FPGA eye for eye ops G for graphics H furred high D throughput 
 T for general purpose. 
 So think of a T2 or T3 micro DFA density R for M M which is the main choice for your general purpose 
 apps C C4 compute P for graphics. 
 So think picks x4 extreme memory Z for extreme memory and CPE Alpha Base workloads and you for bare 
 metal so how are you going to remember that. 
 Well it's a fight Dr. Mac pixie. 
 A few. 
 So here is Dr. Mac pixie. 
 You can tell that she is a doctor cause she's got a stethoscope. 
 She's from Scotland because she's wearing the tartan you know sort of clothes. 
 So that's Mark. 
 She's a pixie so you can clearly see the pixie with the wings. 
 And then I did a few so you could either be Austin or it could be Australia whatever you want to use 
 to remember a few. 
 Our offices are in both Austin Texas as well as in Melbourne Australia. 
 So maybe that's the way you remember it. 
 A cloud guru officers you're gonna go fight this Dr Mark Pixy in Australia or in Austin. 
 So that's how you can remember all the different incidence types. 
 Like I said it's not really important for the certified solutions architect associate exam. 
 It is important when you go on and do the professionals and I will just say one thing these numbers 
 here will change throughout the year. 
 Again you don't need to remember the numbers or anything like that. 
 So an F1 might become an F2 or an R 5 might become an R6 but it doesn't matter. 
 The numbers are basically just the generation so this is the fifth generation of the memory optimised 
 instance. 
 So onto my exam tips. 
 The first one is just remember what. 
 Too is its virtual machines in the cloud it's a web service that provides re sizable compute capacity 
 and Amazon easy to reduce the time required to obtain and boot. 
 New service servers instances two minutes from previously from days or even months depending on where 
 you worked allowing you to quickly scale capacity both up and down as your computing requirements changed. 
 Remember what AC 2 is and we're going to spin up a E2 instance in the very next lecture. 
 Remember the different pricing types we've got OnDemand we've got reserved we've got spot and we've 
 got dedicated host on demands where you pay an hourly or by second rate reserved is basically where 
 you sign a one or three year contract and the more you pay up front the better discounts you get. 
 Spot moves around like the stock market really just depends on Amazon's own supply and demand and then 
 we've got dedicated hosts and this is where you get a dedicated physical machine to you and you can 
 also again pay pay for that on demand as well. 
 And then just remember that if you've got a spot instance and it's being terminated by AC 2 you're not 
 going to be charged for a partial hour of usage. 
 However if you go in and terminate that instance yourself you will be charged for an hour for the hour 
 in which the instance ran. 
 That can be a popular exam question and like I said you don't really need to know all the instance types 
 for the solutions architect associate it can be helpful later on when you go and do the pro but the 
 way I a minimum is just fight to Dr. Mark Pixy in Australia or in Austin. 
 So there's Dr Mac Pixie when can go and fight her in Australia or Austin. 
 It's silly I know but it really really does help you remember all the different instance types. 
 So that is it for this lecture everyone in the next lecture we're gonna go in get our hands dirty and 
 provision our first easy to instant. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.