 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is on cloud watch. 
 Now it's a cloud which comes up surprisingly a lot in these certified Solutions Architect associate 
 exam used to be more sort of geared towards the CIS ops administrator associate and is still does feature 
 extremely heavily in that as well but it does come up in these certified Solutions Architect associate 
 exam and it is definitely worth three or four marks. 
 So let's learn what cloud watch is. 
 So what is a W.S. cloud which will cloud watch is a monitoring service to monitor your AWOL resources 
 as well as the applications that you run in a W S So cloud watch basically monitors performance whenever 
 you hear the word cloud watch. 
 I want you to think of someone at the gym so it's all about performance monitoring and cloud which can 
 monitor things like compute so inside computer can monitor things like our easy two instances a monitor 
 order scaling groups Elastic Load balances Route 53 health checks now I know we haven't covered these 
 off yet. 
 Don't worry we are going to cover them off in the next sections of the course but the cloud watch can 
 basically go through and not just monitor the easy two instances it can monitor a whole bunch of other 
 things as well it can monitor storage and content delivery and you know all these services so can monitor 
 our IBS volumes we can monitor you know how busy the volumes are we can monitor storage gateways and 
 we can monitor cloud front using cloud watch as well. 
 So that's all cloud watch is it's a monitoring tool and like I said I want you to think of performance 
 monitoring now cloud watch with easy to. 
 This is always a popular exam topic whether in the solutions architect associate exam or whether in 
 the CIS office administrator associate exam but essentially cloud watch can monitor at a host level 
 metrics such as CPI you can monitor our network it can monitor our disk and it can do a status check 
 and it can monitor things like the underlying hypervisor whether or not that is running and then it 
 can also monitor the underlying easy to instance will have a look at that in the lab coming up in the 
 next lecture. 
 So what am Amazon like to do is they like to try and confuse you and they like to try and confuse you 
 with cloud trail and they always have these questions where you will be asked given a particular scenario 
 and then you be asked whether you should be using cloud watch or cloud trail and Sir cloud trail basically 
 is a CCTV for your W.S. environment increases the visibility into your users and resource activity by 
 recording AWB as management console actions and API calls. 
 So every time you go in and create a S3 bucket or any C to instance you're basically making an API call 
 to AWB is and this is all recorded using cloud trail and you can actually go in and identify which users 
 and accounts called AWB is the source IP address from which these calls were made and when the calls 
 were made so that's what cloud trail is. 
 Every time you see cloud travel I want you to imagine a big CCTV camera whenever you see cloud watch 
 I want you to imagine performance a cloud which monitors performance cloud trail monitors API calls 
 in the s platform. 
 So just remember going into your exam that cloud watch is used for monitoring performance cloud watch 
 can monitor most of Adobe us as well as your applications that run on eight U.S. cloud watch with easy 
 to will monitor events every five minutes by default but you can also have detailed monitoring turned 
 on and that will give you one minute intervals and we'll look at how to do that in the next lab you 
 can also create cloud watch alarms which trigger notifications and we did that when we created a billing 
 alarm that was essentially creating a cloud watch alarm for our billing going to do that in the next 
 lab as well but we're going to create some easy to performance alerts and then cloud which is all about 
 performance whereas cloud trail is about auditing and I cannot stress that enough we see a scenario 
 based question as asking Who's provisioning what resource in eight of us such as S3 or AC two that's 
 always gonna be cloud trail if it's asking you what at the network throughput is or the disk Io on your 
 easy to instance that's going to be cloud watch. 
 So just remember cloud watch is about performance just think of going to the gym whereas cloud trail 
 is all about auditing. 
 Think of some big CCTV camera or someone with like a little sort of detective magnifying glass. 
 So that is it for this lecture goes the best way to learn anything NATO we ask is to get our hands dirty 
 whether it's in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and go in and provision and easy to instance 
 where the cloud Watch detailed monitoring turned on and now we're gonna go in and start stressing that 
 easy to instance and see what happens. 
 So if you get the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.