 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello cloud gurus and welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is on cloud watch and this is a lapse you will need to log into the adobe s console. 
 Okay so here I am in the AWB console. 
 If I go to services I'll be able to go too easy too. 
 I'm going to provision a new easy to instance. 
 I do have some easy two instances running from the last one that I forgot to shut down so I'm just going 
 to quickly go in and terminate them. 
 You should do the same if you haven't already. 
 It just makes it easier so that we don't get our easy two instances confused for this lab. 
 So that's going through and terminating now and then what I'm going to do it's going to go ahead and 
 launch a new instance. 
 Okay so we're gonna be using an Amazon Linux too. 
 Am I going to use a T2 microbe. 
 And then what we want to do is we want to go down here and we want to go to monitoring and we want to 
 enable cloud Watch detailed monitoring. 
 So we want to monitor our AC two instances at one minute intervals. 
 Now this won't this will take you outside of free tier. 
 So just bear that in mind it will cost you some money. 
 So it's optional whether or not you do it. 
 You can just watch me or you could just use standard monitoring and just be a little bit more patient 
 but I'm going to turn detailed monitoring on next I'm going to go ahead and add my storage. 
 Just gonna use the standard 8 gigs I'm gonna give this a name. 
 I'm just going to call it cloud watch. 
 Easy to detailed something like that. 
 So I know it's got detailed monitoring turned on. 
 Gonna go and add my security groups I'm gonna add it to an existing security group. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and hit review and launch and I'm gonna go ahead and launch my easy to instance. 
 So that is now launching go and view my instance we can set in here. 
 So it's a T2 micro launching into us e 1 B already been provisioned a public IP address. 
 I'm gonna copy that to my clipboard and I'm gonna go in and SS H into that in a second. 
 I'm going to pause a video and just wait for this to come up however. 
 Okay so that easy to instance is now alive and if we click on status checks we'll be able to see our 
 system status check and our instant status check and both have passed and if we click on monitoring 
 we'll be able to see things like our basically our host level metrics are CPSU our desk our network 
 and then also our status checks. 
 Note here we can't see anything else we can't see. 
 Things like RAM utilization or how much disk storage space is left. 
 If we wanted to do something like that we would need a custom metric and we cover off how to do that 
 in the certified CIS ops administrator associate course. 
 But what we're gonna do now is we're gonna log into this easy to instance and we're gonna max out the 
 CPSU before we do that though. 
 Let's set up an alert so that we can get an email if our CPSU utilization is going above a certain percentage. 
 So to set up an alert we need to go into cloud watch and cloud watchers under management and governance. 
 We click in here will be able to see our cloud watch overview and what we want to do is you want to 
 go over to alarms and we're gonna go ahead and create an alarm. 
 And in here we're going to select our metric and down here are our metrics. 
 We're gonna go over to E2 and then we're going to do this on a per instance metric so click in there. 
 Now if hopefully you remember your instance idea I know that mine ends in 0 1 3. 
 So this is the one that I want. 
 If you have got other easy two instances that you've gone through and terminated for example you will 
 see them in here but I'm just going after my this instance idea that ends in 0 1 3 and then what I want 
 is CPSU utilization. 
 So if I scrolled down I can see it in here. 
 So when I click in there I'm gonna go ahead and hit select metric and then my name in here I'm just 
 going to click in here and I'm gonna type C.P. you utilization 90 percent something like that. 
 So this is basically saying that as soon as my CPSU utilization goes over 90 per cent it's gonna send 
 me an alarm. 
 And so whenever CPSU utilization is greater than or equal to we'll just put ninety four one out of how 
 many data points. 
 So because this is one minute intervals it's saying for one minute out of one minute. 
 So if my CPE utilization goes greater than 90 per cent for one minute out of the minute then it will 
 send me an alarm. 
 You can actually edit this you could save two minutes out of five or you'd say for three minutes out 
 of ten or whatever. 
 I'm just gonna leave it as one out of one and then I'm gonna scroll down and says whenever this alarm 
 state is alarm send a notification to and we can go ahead and do a new list so click on that and then 
 all you want to do is enter your email address in there which I'm going to go ahead and do. 
 Now once you've done that go ahead and hit create alarm and you will have to give this a name. 
 So just call it CPSU or something like that and go ahead and hit create alarm and that will ask you 
 to confirm your email address. 
 I've gone ahead and just confirm that I'm gonna go back to cloud watch that's ready to go and we can 
 go ahead and view our alarm. 
 Right now there's insufficient data because we were not using this easy to instance so let's go back 
 over to AC to gonna grab my public IP address and I'm going to go ahead and assess each end to this 
 instance. 
 Okay so here I am in my SSA terminal just gonna type in SS H easy to hyphen user and then at and then 
 minus I. 
 And then the name of my keypad and I'm gonna connect in and then I'm just going to elevate my privileges 
 to route I'm gonna clear the screen and then all we're gonna do is we're gonna type while true do echo 
 and then Dunn and this will basically put our easy to instance into an infinite loop and that's going 
 to max out the CPM so you won't see anything. 
 You'll just see this little bright blue flashing thing here but hopefully in a minute or two you should 
 get an email saying that your cloud watch that you're easy to instance is in a state of an alarm. 
 So I'm just going to pause a video and wait and we can see here I've got my alarm CCU utilization. 
 So it has triggered my alarm and it's basically sent me an email notification saying hey you're easy 
 to instance has gone above 90 percent CPR for longer than a minute and I'm back in the obvious console 
 if I just click on monitoring I'll be able to see down here my CPR utilization has hit 100 percent and 
 that will basically flat line out. 
 I continue to let this run. 
 So let's go back over to cloud watch we can find it under management and governance. 
 And I'm just gonna show you a couple more things. 
 So we set up an alarm. 
 We can see that that alarm has now been triggered and here we've got our dashboards so we can create 
 dashboards and we can create a dashboard to show us either our this region or another region we could 
 look at our entire global overview. 
 Again I'm not really gonna go into that that's more assists ops administrator associate thing but going 
 into the exam just be aware that you can create dashboards and your dashboards can be global as well 
 as regional. 
 We've also got in here logs. 
 So in our logs this allows us to do performance logging essentially so you can send all your logs to 
 cloud watch and then in here we've got events so cloud watch events basically delivers a near real time 
 stream of system events that describe changes in Adobe US resources. 
 You can go in there and set up some events if you want but again that's beyond the scope of the solutions 
 architect course we do that in the certified says ops administrator. 
 Associate course. 
 So let's have a look at my exam tips. 
 So just remember going into your exam standard monitoring is five minutes detailed monitoring is one 
 minute. 
 Remember what you can do with cloud watch. 
 So just like we just saw you can create awesome dashboards and see what's happening with your NWS environment 
 you can also go in and create alarms and this will give you notifications when a certain threshold is 
 met. 
 We can also go in and configure events and this helps you respond to state changes in your NWS resources 
 and then we also have logs and club watch logs allows you to aggregate and monitor and store your log 
 data. 
 Also remember when we're dealing with cloud trail and cloud watch Amazon like to try and confuse you 
 between the two. 
 So cloud watch always monitors performance whereas cloud trail monitors API calls within the AWOL platform. 
 So again if the questions asking you about you want to be able to see who set up an S3 bucket or who 
 provisioned and easy to instance that's gonna be cloud trail if you want to monitor the performance 
 of an easy to instance that's gonna be cloud watch. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys. 
 If you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next lecture. 
 Thank you.