 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at instance metadata. 
 So in the last lecture we looked at bootstrapped scripts and we passed at some user data. 
 We can actually go into our easy to instance and look at this user data as well as instant metadata 
 sort of want you to do is to SSA H in your easy to instance. 
 Okay. 
 So I mean my easy to instance I've elevated my privileges to root. 
 I'm just going to clear the screen so it looks clean. 
 And then what I want to do is I'm going to run the curl command and then I'm going to do it to this 
 IP address. 
 So we're gonna go to 1 6 9 2 5 4 dot 1 6 9 2 5 4 and forward slash latest and then forward slash. 
 And then we'll do user hyphen data. 
 And there you go you can actually see our bootstrapped script. 
 This is all these lines here. 
 So this is what we pass to it when it first booted up. 
 And you can if you hit up again and go all the way to the end of the command and we can output this 
 to boot strap Dot T X T and if we type now Cat bootstrap Dot T X T we'll be able to see that we've created 
 a file called bootstrap dot text here we've passed our bootstrap script that was save and it saved in 
 our user data to boot strapped Dot T X T and you can actually see the file in there. 
 So let's clear the screen. 
 So that's a way of passing our bootstrap script to our easy to instance and then having our easy to 
 instance remember you can use the code command to do that. 
 Another thing we can use the Cole command is to get to data on our individual easy to instance. 
 So again we're gonna go to DP We're gonna go to 1 6 9 2 5 4 1 6 9 2 5 4 and then forward slash latest. 
 And then this time instead of saying use the data we want to see meta data and then forward slash and 
 I'll give you a whole bunch of different options. 
 So let's say we wanted to get our IP the four if we hit the up button again and we go all the way to 
 the end. 
 And then now just type local and then hyphen and then IP V for. 
 And you can see my local IP address there. 
 So it's my 1 7 2 31 dot 22 dot to 1 3. 
 I can also do it from my public IP. 
 So instead of saying local IP we want public and then hyphen IP the four and then you go. 
 That's my public IP address. 
 And likewise I can output this data into a text file. 
 So I call it my IP dot t t t t. 
 And if we now do l s we can see that we've got my IP dot text t if I cut that so my IP dot text t I'll 
 be able to see the IP address in there and what I could do is have a bootstrap script that runs this 
 gets the public IP rights to a file then automatically copies it over to us three that could then trigger 
 a lambda function and I know we haven't covered off lambda yet but we'll get to that in a few sections 
 of the course and then you could basically store that IP address in a database so you could write it 
 directly to a database from your easy to instance. 
 So there's lots of things you can do using the kill command and lots of data that you can get. 
 And just to see it all all you need to do is just type in curl and then go all cohesively 1 6 9 2 5 
 4 1 6 9 2 5 4 forward slash metadata and then just hit enter and you'll be able to see all the various 
 different options there. 
 So what are my exam tips. 
 Just remember that metadata is used to get information about an instance such as it's public IP and 
 you can do that by running this command circle there be 1 6 9 2 5 4 1 6 9 2 5 4 4D slash lead us forward 
 slash metadata and then you can also get your user data and you user data will simply contain the bootstrap 
 script that you run and that's what's passed to it when it is first provisioned and you can get that 
 running the code command. 
 So 1 6 9 2 5 4 1 6 9 2 5 4 4 slash latest Ford slash user data. 
 So that is it for this like she goes if you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move onto the next lecture. 
 Thank you.