 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to the easy to summarize so congratulations you're at the end of another section 
 of the course. 
 Hopefully you've learnt an awful lot. 
 The first thing we learnt about was what. 
 Easy too is it's basically just a resize a ball compute capacity in the cloud or it's a way of provisioning 
 virtual machines in the cloud and it reduces the time required to obtain and boot new servers. 
 Instances two minutes rather than hours or days or weeks or months depending on where you work and it 
 allows you to quickly scale capacity both up and down as your computing requirements change. 
 So we have four different pricing models for AC two we've got on demand and this is where you pay a 
 fixed rate by the hour or by the second with no long term commitments. 
 We then have reserved. 
 This is where you have a capacity reservation contract terms of one years or three years. 
 The more you pay upfront and the longer the contract term the more discount you get. 
 We then have spot. 
 This enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance. 
 Capacity basically moves around like the stock market and we then have dedicated hosts and this is physical 
 easy to serve as that dedicated for you and it can be useful where you've got existing server bound 
 software licenses or perhaps a regulation saying that you cannot use multi tenant virtualization. 
 Do you remember going into your exam that if a spot instance is terminated by AC two because the prices 
 change you're not going to be charged for that partial hour of usage. 
 However if you terminate the instance yourself you are going to be charged for any hour in which the 
 instance ran. 
 We then looked at our different easy to instance types and we came up with the new monarch fight. 
 Dr. Pixy a few so in Austin or in Australia depending on what you want. 
 So there is Dr Mac pixie. 
 She is clearly a pixie because she's got wings. 
 She's clearly Scottish because she's wearing tartan. 
 She wants to fight. 
 You can see there's a stethoscope around her so fight. 
 Dr Matt Pixie and like I said earlier you don't really need to understand every single easy to instance 
 type going into this exam where it does become more useful is when you if you go on to do the professional 
 level exams they will test you as to whether or not it's a valid instance type or not. 
 Moving on to IBS we learned that IBS is basically a virtual hard disk drive in the cloud. 
 So termination protection for easy to is turned off by default. 
 You can go ahead and turn it on and that means someone won't be able to accidentally delete your easy 
 two instances on an IBS backed instance. 
 The default action for the root volume is to be deleted when the instance is terminated and we saw that 
 every time we terminate an easy to instance the volume itself gets deleted the root device volume but 
 any additional volumes will persist. 
 So that is something to watch out for if you have an easy to instance with multiple virtual hard disk 
 drive so multiple IBS volumes when you go in and terminate that easy to instance the root device volume 
 the volume that the operating system is installed out will be deleted automatically. 
 But the other volumes will persist and then IBS route volumes of your default armies cannot be encrypted. 
 You can use a third party tools such as bit locker in windows for example to encrypt the root volume 
 or this can be done when creating a semis says their lab to follow but we did do the lab and we will 
 cover off the steps involved to encrypt our root volume in a second and then also we learn that additional 
 volumes can be encrypted so when we go in and provision our easy to instance for the first time we can't 
 encrypt the root device volume but what we can do is any additional volumes we can encrypt a right from 
 the very start. 
 Moving on to security groups all inbound traffic is always blocked by default all outbound traffic is 
 allowed. 
 Changes to security groups take effect immediately so as soon as you open up port 80 that effect takes 
 effect immediately and then you can also have any number of E2 instances within a security group and 
 you can have multiple security groups attached to easy to instances and we did that when we went in 
 to the Air Force lab we attached a our default security group as well as our web DMC security group 
 as well. 
 Moving on to again staying on security groups. 
 So security groups are state full. 
 That means that when you open up a port. 
 So if you open up port 80 it's going to be open for both inbound and outbound traffic network ACL is 
 a stateless. 
 When you go and do a network ACL you're going to have to open up port 80 both inbound and then also 
 outbound so we're going to cover that off in the VPC section of the course. 
 If you create an inbound rule allowing traffic in that traffic is automatically allowed back out again 
 and you cannot block specific IP addresses using security groups. 
 Instead you're going to be using network access control list. 
 And again we will see that in the BPC section of the course and you can always specify allow rules with 
 security group but not deny rules. 
 Then we looked at UBS. 
 These are the different IBS types who have got General Purpose SSD or GP to. 
 We've got provisioned eye ops SSD which has 0 1. 
 So those are two different flavors of SSD. 
 And essentially if you want your ops to go above 16000 you want to move from general purpose over to 
 provision de ops. 
 We then have hard disk drives. 
 So we've got three different types who've got throughput optimized hard disk drives or s.t. one we've 
 got cold hard disk drives or SC one and then we've got IBS magnetic and this is sometimes referred to 
 just as standard as its API name. 
 And that's typically is previous generation. 
 So you might not see that in the exam with the throughput optimize and cold hard disk drive. 
 Basically if you need to optimize throughput choose throughput optimize if you just want the lowest 
 cost storage available. 
 Use cold hard disk drive. 
 So staying on IBS volumes exist on IBS so just think of as the IBS as a virtual hard disk drive in the 
 cloud. 
 Snapshots exist on S3 and I want you to think of snapshots as a photograph of the disk and snapshots 
 are actually point in time copies of the volumes and snapshots are incremental so this means that only 
 the blocks that have changed since your last snapshot are moved to S3. 
 And if you take a snapshot for the first time it may take some time to create. 
 That's because it's doing its very first one but then it will only replicate what if you take a second 
 snapshot is only going to replicate the Deltas so it's only going to replicate the changes to create 
 a snapshot for Amazon's IBS volumes that serve as a route device volumes you should always try and stop 
 the instance before taking the snapshot. 
 And that will give you a consistent snapshot but that is optional you can take snapshots on running 
 instances as well and you can create enemies from both volumes and snapshots and you can actually change 
 IBS volume sizes on the fly including changing the size and the storage type and volumes will always 
 be in the same availability zone as the easy to instance you cannot have an easy to instance in one 
 availability zone and then an IBS volume in another bear that in mind as well. 
 Terms of migrating IBS so to move an easy to volume from one availability zone to another. 
 You just take a snapshot of it you then create an army from the snapshot and then you use the army to 
 launch that easy to instance in a new availability zone. 
 And likewise if you want to move easy to volumes from one region to another take a snapshot of it create 
 Naomi from the snapshot and then copy the EMI from one region to another and then you use the copied 
 HDMI to launch the new easy to instance in the new region encryption snapshot some encrypted volumes 
 are encrypted automatically volumes restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypted automatically as 
 well and you can share snapshots but only if they are unencrypted and you can share snapshots with other 
 Adobe accounts or you can actually make them public as well. 
 Moving on to unencrypted route device volume so route device volumes can now be encrypted when you provision 
 your easy to instance. 
 You don't need to worry about it but if you do have an unencrypted route device volume that needs to 
 be encrypted you need to do the following. 
 So you go ahead and create a snap of the unencrypted route device volume you then create a copy of the 
 snapshot and then select the encrypt option and then you create an army from the encrypted snapshot 
 and then you use that EMI to launch the encrypted instances. 
 So just like we did in the lab earlier on CBS versus instant storm so instant store volumes are sometimes 
 referred to as ephemeral storage instant stored volumes cannot be stopped if the underlying host or 
 hypervisor fails you're going to lose your data and CBS backed instances can be stopped however and 
 you won't lose the data on this instance if it's stopped and you can reboot both and not lose your data 
 and by default both route volumes will be deleted on termination. 
 However EDI s volumes you can actually tell AWB to keep the route device volume from being deleted so 
 you can basically stop it from automatically being deleted. 
 In terms of encrypting route device volumes how do we do it. 
 Well we created a snapshot of the unencrypted device volume. 
 We then created a copy of the snapshot and when we did that we selected the encrypt option. 
 We then create an EMI from the encrypted snapshot and then we use that HDMI to launch the new encrypted 
 instances so that's how we basically encrypt our device volumes using the adobe console. 
 Don't forget you can also do it using just software like BET locker etc etc.. 
 Moving on to cloud watch remember that cloud watch is used for monitoring performance. 
 Cloud watch can monitor most of NWS as well as your applications that run on aided by US cloud watch 
 with easy to will monitor events every five minutes by default however you can have one minute intervals 
 by turning on detailed monitoring and you can create a cloud watch alarms which then go ahead and trigger 
 notifications and cloud watches all about performance cloud change is all about auditing. 
 I'm going to have another slide of that coming up. 
 So what can you do with cloud watch. 
 Well you can create dashboards and this will allow you to see what's happening within your W.S. environment 
 all around the world in create alarms. 
 And this allows you to set alarms that notify you at a particular threshold has hit like 80 percent 
 or 90 percent CPE utilization. 
 We can monitor events a cloud watch events helps us to respond to state changes in our W.S. resources. 
 And you can also use logs club watch logs to help you aggregate monitor and store your logging data. 
 And like I said cloud trail versus cloud watch cloud which monitors performance so think of someone 
 at the gym cloud trail monitors API calls and the obvious platforms of cloud trail will tell you who 
 provisioned and easy to instance or who set up an S3 bucket et cetera et cetera but then learnt about 
 the command line so you can interact with AWB from anywhere in the world using the CLIA you are going 
 to need to set up access in IAM. 
 This gives you an access key idea and secret access key the commands themselves are not in the exams 
 but some basic commands will be useful to know for real life but then looked at rolls because we looked 
 at on our easy to instance what happens if somebody goes into our secret directory our DOT AWB directly 
 which is in our home directory and then opens up our configuration details I'll be able to get our access 
 key I.D. and secret access key so roles are a much more secure way than storing your access key I.D. 
 and secret access key on individual easy two instances. 
 Roles are much easier to manage and roles can be assigned to an easy to instance after it's being created 
 using both the console and the command line. 
 And roles are universal. 
 You can use them in any region in the world. 
 We then went on to bootstrap scripts bootstrap scripts run off when an easy to instance first boots 
 and can be powerful way of automating software installs and updates. 
 So we've used a little bit in this course so far we're going to use it a lot certainly in the next section 
 we're going to create a bootstrap script that installs Wordpress and we're going to use that to connect 
 to our ideas instances. 
 So bootstrap scripts are incredibly useful as well. 
 We then learnt about instance metadata and a user data. 
 So it's used to get information about an incident such as a public IP and to do it you just run a curl 
 and then 1 6 9 2 5 4 1 6 9 0 2 5 4 4D slash latest sports slash metadata. 
 Do you want to get your user data your user data is literally your bootstraps script that is passed 
 to your easy to instance when it first boots up. 
 And again you just run a curl 1 6 9 2 5 4 1 6 9 0 2 5 4 forward slash latest forward slash and then 
 user data. 
 Moving on to airfares. 
 That was the very last lap. 
 So we learnt that it supports the network file system version for NFC FSB for protocol. 
 You only pay for the storage that you use. 
 You don't need to pre provision so you don't need to go in you know spin up an eight gig instance or 
 something like that. 
 It's basically grows as you put more files on it and can scale all the way up to petabytes and it can 
 can support thousands of concurrent NFC East connections. 
 Remember if you need shared storage you can't share CBS with multiple easy two instances doesn't work 
 like that but you can create an NFL airfares mount and then you can store your files in there and multiple 
 easy two instances will be able to access it. 
 And with airfares data is stored across multiple Availability Zones within a region. 
 And in terms of the consistency model you get read after rate consistency. 
 Moving onto easy to placement groups placement group is simply how you place your easy two instances. 
 There's three different types of placement groups. 
 The first one is a clustered placement group. 
 We then have spread placement groups followed by petition placement groups a clustered placement group 
 is where you want to network latency high network throughput. 
 This will be where all your easy two instances are in the same availability zone and as close together 
 as possible so that you don't have any sort of latency spread placement group. 
 These are for individual critical easy two instances so you want to make sure that they are basically 
 in different availability zones and different pieces of hardware. 
 So if a rack does fail it's only going to affect the one easy to instance it's not going to take two 
 or three out at a time and partitioned placement groups are effectively for multiple easy two instances. 
 So this would be for things like each DFS base and Cassandra clusters. 
 And this is where you have multiple E2 instances into a partition and each partition is always going 
 to be on separate hardware or separate racks from the other partitions. 
 So there's three different types of placement groups. 
 Just remember the clustered placement group doesn't span multiple Availability Zones whereas the spread 
 placement and partitioned placement group can span availability zones. 
 Remember that the that you specify for a placement group must be unique within your own NWS account. 
 Only certain types of instances can be launched into placement groups so these will be things like compute 
 optimized Jeep you memory optimize storage optimized etc. and then also remember that NWS recommend 
 homogenous instances within a clustered placement groups. 
 So this is where you have the same instance type you can't merge placement groups and you can't move 
 any existing instance into a placement group. 
 What you can do though is create an EMI from your existing instance and then launch the new instance 
 from the Amway into a placement group. 
 So that is it at the end of the easy to section of the course. 
 I hope you had lots of fun. 
 And the next section of the course we're going to look at. 
 Relational database services or ideas. 
 We're to be using Wordpress which will be using a backend my cycle instance. 
 And again you're gonna get a lot more hands on fun with AWB so if you got the time please join me in 
 the next lecture. 
 Thank you.