 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture in this lecture. 
 We're going to provision our very first easy to instant. 
 So this is part one we're going to keep it just under 20 minutes if we can. 
 And we're going to provision a little easy to instance and turn it into a web server. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the top console. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the obvious console now. 
 Up here we can control our region. 
 I'm gonna do this. 
 Rest of this course in Northern Virginia. 
 And we're going to go over to services and we'll we'll find easy to as the very first service that's 
 under compute. 
 Go ahead and click on that. 
 Now if you've never used AC two before you're basically you're going to have all the same numbers as 
 me zero running instances or basically everything going to go ahead and hit launch instant so you can 
 see an ac to we've got a whole bunch of different availabilities zones so we've got a through to F so 
 we've got six Availability Zones. 
 Let's go ahead and launch our instance. 
 Now step one is always to choose an Amazon machine image and an Amazon machine. 
 Image is just choosing your virtual machine. 
 So do you want to be running Amazon Linux or do you want to be running SUSE Linux or Red Hat or would 
 you like to be running Windows for example. 
 So I'm going to go with Amazon Linux to EMI. 
 We are going to use this for the rest of the course. 
 So go ahead and click on Amazon Linux 2 a.m.. 
 In here we've got all our different instance types so we can actually control it up here as well as 
 we can have micro instances compute optimized general purpose GP new memory optimized storage optimized 
 etc. and see if you can remember that new monarch it was fate Dr. Mac Pixie a use so that's these instances 
 in here now where you'll see free tier eligible that means that this instance stays within free tier 
 so for the rest of this course we are gonna be using t t to micros T3 you can get T3 micros now but 
 again it's not going to be free to eligible so I'm going around a t to micro just go ahead and configure 
 our instance details and this is where we really start to set everything up. 
 So the number of instances I'm going to launch one I'm not going to click launch into an order scaling 
 group we're going to cover off auto scaling group in the high availability section of the course down 
 here we couldn't do request spot instances so we could set our spot price. 
 I'm not going to do that we're just going to go on demand we're going to launch it into our default 
 VPC VPC just stands for virtual private cloud we're gonna have a whole VPC section coming up right now 
 we're just using our own default BPC as Amazon create for us and when we go into the BBC section of 
 course we'll be creating our own subnets in here. 
 This is a way of choosing which availability zone only want to go into. 
 So if you want USD 1 a 1 b 1 C etc etc. You can select in here. 
 Interesting thing to note is that this is randomize. 
 So if I was to sign up to another AWB account and I select us e one a basically the two accounts might 
 be in completely different availability zones. 
 So one a for one account is might not be one a for another account. 
 So something to note down here we've got auto assigned public IP address. 
 I'm gonna do that placement groups we haven't covered off. 
 We will cover that off later but essentially it's for high performance computing capacity reservations 
 so this is where you can reserve capacity on your easy two instances in a specific availability zone 
 not going to do that. 
 I am rolls will cover off later and here we've got our shutdown behaviour. 
 So what happens if we shut down this instance. 
 Do we want to stop it or terminate it. 
 Here we've got enable termination protection. 
 This is to stop us from accidentally deleting our easy two instances. 
 I am going to enable it for this one. 
 Here we've got monitoring. 
 So this is enable cloud watch we are going to cover off cloud watch in this section of the course cloud 
 watch by default will monitor your easy two instances every five minutes if you want it to be less than 
 that if you want it to be every 1 minute interval you need to enable detailed monitoring but if you 
 do do that you won't be within free tier tenancy in here we can say hey I want shared hardware I want 
 a dedicated instance or dedicated hosts I'm just going to use shared hardware elastic interface we won't 
 cover off yet and down here we've got advance details and this is where we can pass bootstrap scripts 
 so we're going to look at that later on in this section of the course. 
 So basically all you need to do is go ahead and click on the protect against termination accidental 
 termination and you can go ahead and leave everything else as default next let's go in and add our storage. 
 Now we are going to cover off the different IBS volume types later on in this section of the course 
 but for now we've got three we've got General Purpose we've got provisioned eye ops these are both SSD 
 and then we have magnetic which is standard and if we click over here and go to add new volume we actually 
 get more options and that's because this is the route device volume and the device volume can only launch 
 on SSD or magnetic standard but you can have additional volumes and additional volumes include things 
 like cold hard disk drive and throughput optimize hard disk drive and these are all magnetic as well. 
 Like I said let's not get too bogged down in this right now. 
 We're going to go and learn about that later on in this section of the course. 
 I'm going to delete this off. 
 So we're just going to launch the device volume when we say route device volume or IBS or we're talking 
 about as a virtual disk on in the cloud. 
 This is where our operating system is going to be installed. 
 So let's go ahead and add our tags. 
 I am going to add some tags here so I'm going to call this name. 
 I'm going to call it Web server 0 1 the department. 
 So this is the department that owns that web server. 
 I'm just going to call it Developers developers and add another tags we might have employee I.D.. 
 And this would be our employee I.D. who provision that et cetera et cetera. 
 So this is a way of keeping track of our easy to and our aid of U.S. infrastructure. 
 Let's go ahead and configure our security group. 
 Now security group is just a virtual firewall. 
 That's all it is it's a virtual firewall which allows communication over particular ports. 
 I'm going to cover a security groups in a lot of detail in the VPC section of the course. 
 But for now I just understand that it's a virtual firewall. 
 This is how you enable traffic on the various different ports. 
 So each DDP goes across port 80 SS each goes a cross port 22. 
 So you're just allowing various different types of communication to easy to instance through your security 
 group. 
 We are going to create a new security group. 
 I'm just going to call mine web DMZ so demilitarised zone. 
 So this is the security group that all my web servers are going to go into and I'm going to add a rule. 
 I'm going to allow port 80 so DP and we're going to do it to the 0 0 dot dot dot forward slash 0. 
 And so this is a side address range again we're going to cover this off in the networking section of 
 the course. 
 But essentially when these are all zeros you're opening it up to the whole world. 
 Now you might want to lock your SS H down to your particular IP. 
 You can just click in there and then it will lock it down to this IP address so you can only SS H in 
 on this IP address the problem and that is that if your IP address changes then you won't be able to 
 access this easy to instant. 
 So I'm just going to do Oh Dot Dot Dot forward slash some copy and paste it in there and I'll give us 
 a little warning. 
 So let's go ahead and hit review and launch and we're going to go ahead and hit launch. 
 Now we do need to create a key pair because we've never done this before. 
 So the way I like to think of public key and private keys. 
 This is asymmetric encryption. 
 So it means you need to see asymmetric with symmetry symmetric encryption it's just one. 
 So with asymmetric encryption you've got a public key and I want you to imagine that as a padlock and 
 you can go and take your public key and you can go and put it everywhere you can put on your bike you 
 can put it on your front door you can put on your neighbor's front door. 
 It doesn't matter if someone gets your public key your private key is the key that opens that padlock 
 and you do not want anyone else to get your private key because then they can open up all your padlocks 
 you can open up all your public keys zip public key will go on your easy to instance the private key 
 or save locally on your machine and you will use that private key to be able to access each into your 
 easy to instance. 
 So let's go ahead and create a new key pair. 
 I'm just gonna call it my and the on my USD one USCIS one. 
 Keep Kate keep her name. 
 There we go. 
 So my use one KP. 
 I'm gonna go ahead and download that so download that to a safe location. 
 You will need it to connect to your easy to instance. 
 So I've gone ahead and hit launch instance and I'm going to go in and view my instances so we can see 
 now that it's launching this is my instance I.D. you can see it's inherited the name from my tag. 
 We can see the instance type is a T2 micro. 
 It's available in US e one D. 
 It's currently pending and the status checks are initializing certainly got a DNS address. 
 So this is a web address that we can use to go and visit our easy to instance and down here we can see 
 you can move this so that it's bigger or smaller just by clicking these and we can see all our information 
 in here so we can see our public IP address for example we can see that it's in our VPC we can see what 
 subnet it's in et cetera et cetera et cetera and this will become more and more familiar to you as you 
 go on throughout the course and get your hands dirty with AC 2. 
 Now I would copy this public IP address to a clipboard just clip on this little icon. 
 And now what we're gonna do is we're gonna SSA reach into our easy to instance. 
 So right now I'm gonna show you how to do it in a Mac and then I'll quickly show you how to do it in 
 Windows as well. 
 And then we will turn that easy to instance into a little web server. 
 So Windows users if you just jump ahead to about 12 minutes and 20 seconds you should be able to see 
 how to configure this for Chrome so if we click on applications or we scroll all the way down you'll 
 be able to see utilities. 
 And in here we've got terminal. 
 So go ahead and open that up. 
 By default you'll be in your downloads directory and if you type in L S for list you'll be able to see 
 the files and folders in there. 
 Now I can see my key pair here it's called My u s e one keeper. 
 So I'm going to do as I'm just going to make a directory called SS H and I'm going to move my US is 
 one to my SS each directory and then I'm gonna go into my SS H directory so city SS each and then I 
 can see it in here. 
 Now what I'm going to do is going to change the permissions I want to type C H mod and then 400 and 
 then my US is 1 keeper. 
 And you can hit TAB by the way. 
 That's how it will auto fill and that has just changed the permissions to lock. 
 MIKE He down and then what I'm going to do is I'm just going to clear the screen and we're gonna type. 
 SS H and then easy to hyphen user. 
 And then at. 
 And then we need to paste our IP address in there and then we need to do minus AI. 
 And then it was called My US S1 key player. 
 So basically we're connecting in as easy to user at this address using this keypad and ask if you want 
 to continue connecting here. 
 Yes. 
 And you should be able to connect in. 
 Now if you are having trouble some networks block port 22. 
 So you need to go and do this at home under a home network or do it on your you know on your phone or 
 something like that because some networks like hidden public libraries for example at schools or even 
 in your office they might be blocking port 22. 
 This is a common frustrating thing that some people get when they can't connect to their easy to instance 
 if it's not working it's probably because your networks blocking the port 22 you will be able to do 
 this at home though so have connected in and what I'm going to do is just elevate my privileges to route. 
 So we do that by typing sudo Eskew and this will change my user you can see here it's gone from easy 
 to use it to root. 
 And this basically gives me super user access. 
 This gives me administrator access across the entire easy to instance but you shouldn't really do this 
 I know a lot of Linux admins will be looking at this saying all you should why don't you just type pseudo 
 for everything but for the rest this course I am gonna do it just because it makes the commands easier 
 and it makes it easier for beginners to follow along. 
 So again I'm going to go ahead and clear the screen. 
 OK so for Windows users what you need to do is go ahead and install google chrome as your browser and 
 then we're going to add a extension in Chrome which will basically turn our browser into an SS each 
 client. 
 So what it wants you to do is once you've installed chrome go over to Google and just type in SS H chrome 
 extension into Google and go ahead and hit enter and in here you'll be able to see it's called the Secure 
 show out and I'll put this link in the resources section of the course. 
 So go ahead and click on that and then all we want to do is go ahead and download this extension. 
 So I'm gonna go ahead and hit add to Chrome that will then add this to Chrome. 
 Go ahead and hit add up and that will go ahead and install this extension into Chrome can take a little 
 bit a while so just wait for it to finish installing and there we go it has now installed now to get 
 to this extension you just need to navigate to Chrome colon forward slash forward slash and then apps. 
 That's how you are able to access your apps in Chrome and then we have it here. 
 It's the secure shell app so go ahead and click on that. 
 And then what we want to do is we want to go in and configure this in order to connect real easy to 
 instance. 
 So the first thing we need to do is go ahead and grab the IP address. 
 So here's another easy to instance I've just spun up and I'm gonna go ahead and click back in here. 
 And so my username is just going to be easy too high for users to type that in. 
 Easy to hyphen user. 
 And then the hostname in here will just paste in our IP address and then what we need to do is go and 
 create our identity. 
 Now in order to do that we need to navigate to where we installed or where we downloaded LP and file 
 so. 
 Now we need to navigate over to the command prompt so just click on right click on the windows button. 
 Go ahead and hit run and then just type C and D command that will fire up the command prompt you need 
 to navigate to where you installed or where you downloaded JPM file size mines installed on the downloads 
 directory. 
 So I'm just gonna go to my downloads directory so city downloads and then I'm just going to type desire 
 and that will list everything in my directory and you can see here we've got my key pair so this one's 
 called My KP Doc e m I'll just make this a bit bigger so you can see it. 
 And then all we want to do is we want to type the following commands. 
 We want to type in SS H hyphen ki Gen and then minus Y and then minus F and then we're going to type 
 the name of our key part of a key pair. 
 So it's my KP dot P. 
 And then we're going to output that to my KP and then dot pub. 
 So we're basically generating our public key. 
 So this is asymmetric encryption which means us have a private key and a public key a public key is 
 basically like a padlock. 
 You can give anyone a copy of that public key but they cannot open it up without the private key. 
 And that's why you'd never hand out your private key to anyone because then they can open up your public 
 key. 
 That's the way I always like to think of it. 
 So we type in desire. 
 Now we can see our two files we've got my KP dot P E which is our private key and my KP dot pub which 
 is our public key. 
 The last thing we need to do is just rename the MAI KP dot p. m. to just my KP so you can give it any 
 name that you want. 
 You've got to lose the DOT P extension. 
 Once we've done that let's go back over to our to our Google Chrome extension so it's in here and then 
 we're gonna go ahead and hit import and then what you want to do is just navigate to your downloads 
 directory and import those two files. 
 Now again you must have changed that extension from DOT p. m. to just being called we're basically having 
 no extension. 
 Go ahead and hit open that will then change your identity to that key keypad and then you should be 
 able to just click in here. 
 I've lost my username and password again but I can just regenerate it and then we should be able to 
 go ahead and connect. 
 So if we just enter it will now say it's loading the plug in connecting to that IP address just typing 
 yes and then it's going to add it to the list of known hosts and then we go we have logged in to our 
 easy to instance we can elevate our privileges and then we can go ahead and clear the screen. 
 And now you can follow along with all the commands in Windows as well. 
 And then what we're going to do was going to apply some operating system updates. 
 So if we just type in Yum update minus Yes I see yum update minus Y it will just look for operating 
 system updates you can see here that I do not need any updates there's no security updates so this is 
 using the latest packages and then what I want to do is I want to install Apache suite type yum install 
 each TBD minus yes and that will go through and install Apache and Apache basically turns our easy to 
 instance into our Web server. 
 Once you've done that you can be able to go to your city var dub dub dub reached him Al directory and 
 anything that you put in here will be basically a website or be accessible over port 80. 
 So let's clear the screen and what we're going to do is we're going to create a little file we're going 
 to call it nano and then index the HMO Nanos just a text editor and I'm just going to write some really 
 quick reached him Al so B hated him Al had not even got to go bother with body and all of that. 
 I'm just gonna say hello cloud gurus and we're going to end our header we're going to end our heat here 
 Mel and then control X and then hit yes and then hit enter and you'll be able to see that foul in there. 
 So as soon as we turn on the Apache service or the heat TPD service this web server will become a basically 
 a web server and anyone will be able to go to our index start each team and sort of turn it on or we 
 need to do is type service he said TBD and then start and that will start the hasty DVD service and 
 then you might just want to type a command called check config on check config on we'll just basically 
 start the heat TBD service if your if your easy to instance accidentally reboots you don't need to go 
 in and manually go in and turn it on at the next reboot. 
 So let's go ahead and test this by going over to a web browser. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in a web browser and all I'm going to do is pasted my IP address. 
 Hit enter and you can see it. 
 Hello cloud gurus. 
 So we've created our very first little web server so I'm gonna end this lecture here. 
 You've done really really well. 
 You've got the time. 
 Please join me in the next lecture and we'll have a look at what else we can do with our easy two incidents 
 before we go in and terminate. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.