 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clubbers and welcome to part two of the launching our first easy to instance let's go back over 
 to the obvious console. 
 Okay so here I am in the adobe us console. 
 I'm in easy to down here we can see all the details about our easy to instant so we can see which key 
 pair it's using so it's using my US is one key pair you can also scroll down and we can see that termination 
 protection is turned on this is a true value we can see a whole bunch of different stuff including our 
 IP address your DNS address your public DNS address you can use this this you arrow and you'll still 
 be able to browse to the hello cloud gurus web page in here we've got our status checks so there is 
 this comes up a lot in the SIS ops administrator associate you've got a system status check this is 
 checking the underlying hypervisor so it's checking actual physical machine and then we've got our instant 
 status check. 
 This is actually going and checking the easy to instance itself you can hold over here and have a read 
 of it by holding your mouse over the little eyes symbol in here we've got our monitoring now we are 
 gonna do cloud watch later on in this section of the course we can turn detailed monitoring on for this 
 easy to instance and here we can see our you utilization we can see our network we can see different 
 disk utilization status checks et cetera et cetera and we are going to go in and create our own cloud 
 Watch metrics and dashboards later on in this section of the course and then in here we've got our tags 
 and this is what we set up when we first provisioned this easy to instance. 
 Now I can go up here and I can do different actions I can go in and stop my instance I could go in and 
 try and terminate it but you see here I can't click this button and that's because termination protection 
 is turned on by wanted to turn it off I just need to go over to my instance settings in here we can 
 see we can do a whole bunch of different stuff so we can add or replace rolls we can change our termination 
 protection I'm going to go ahead and hit yes disable I'm now able to go in and go terminate and if I 
 click this button here it will terminate at that easy to instance I'm going to leave it running so that 
 we don't have to keep provisioning easy two instances there is a couple more things I want to show you 
 though. 
 So over here we've got different things that we can do. 
 We've got our spot requests we've got our reserved instances dedicated host scheduled instances and 
 then capacity reservations by click on reserved instances I can go in and start to purchase my reserved 
 instances and you can go through and have a look at the different types you could say you want Linux 
 you want a standard tenancy in here you could say I want a T2 micro super large whatever let's go t 
 to small term let's go straight for the 12 to 36 months let's go payment option all up front and then 
 you could go and hit search and that will show you these different instances you can then go and add 
 these to your card so if you're basically purchasing a T2 small for 36 months effectively it's gonna 
 be two hundred twenty nine dollars and that's gonna That's pretty good rate when you think about it 
 for a virtual machine and the cloud for 3 years you can only pay 300 bucks or less than three hundred 
 bucks two hundred twenty nine. 
 So that's how you go and purchase reserved instances let's go back over to the easy to dashboard and 
 before I'm just going to go ahead and hit launch instance and I just wanted to show you some more things 
 so we're going to launch an Amazon Linux to EMI we're going to leave it as default and we're gonna leave 
 this as default in here we can add our volumes and we saw this in the last lecture but what you can 
 do is if you click in here you can change it to be encrypted so you can use the default AWP as CBS encryption 
 key and this means that essentially what's going to happen is that this volume will be encrypted when 
 it's first launch what you can't do though is encrypt the device volume when you launch it and we'll 
 see why that is a little bit later on when we cover encryption but essentially if it was encrypted we 
 wouldn't be able to launch it so you can encrypt additional volumes but when you first launch an instance 
 using Amazon's HDMI it's not going to be encrypted you can go in and encrypt it later she how to do 
 that but just remember that when you first launch an Amazon EMI image from Amazon it's not going to 
 be encrypted on just the route device volume on all the other volumes it will be. 
 So let's go over to my exam tips and cover off what we've learned so far. 
 So we learnt that termination is protection is turned off by default we had to go in and turn it on 
 when we provisioned our easy to instance. 
 It's also important to remember on an e-business backed instance that the default action is for the 
 route eBay's volume to be deleted when the instance is terminated. 
 So basically if you go in and terminate your easy to instance is going to terminate your virtual hard 
 disk drive as well that's the default action you can change that so that it keeps the virtual hard disk 
 drive so that is an option that you can do. 
 And then we also learned that the IBS route volumes of your default allies cannot be encrypted. 
 There was no option there for us to go in encrypted but you can use third party tools such as BET locker 
 etc. to ing and pit locker comes with Windows to encrypt your route volume so you could provision and 
 easy to instance a Windows easy to instance log into it and then turn bit lock on and that will encrypt 
 the route device volume that encrypt your hard disk drive and there is another way you can also do this 
 when creating admires and we're gonna learn how to do that in a lab. 
 In this section of the course but then we also saw that if we had additional volumes that they can also 
 be encrypted so you can provision and easy to instance with additional volumes that are encrypted you 
 just can't provision one with the right device volume and likely learned route device volume just means 
 the volume in which the operating system is installed. 
 So that is it for this lecture goes. 
 If you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next lecture. 
 We're going to learn about easy. 
 Two security groups. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.