 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello lagers and welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is called CBS 1 0 1. 
 Now we briefly touched on IBS in the easy to 1 to 1 lecture. 
 And we've also used CBS already when we provisioned our very first easy to instance. 
 But in this lecture we're going to deep dive a little bit deeper into IBS so what is IBS. 
 Well CBS basically stands for a plastic block store and essentially it's a virtual hard disk in the 
 cloud. 
 It provides persistent block storage volumes for use with Amazon AC two instances in the AWOL cloud 
 and each Amazon CBS volume is automatically replicated within its own availability zone to protect you 
 from component failure which is offering high availability and durability. 
 So all CBS is is a virtual hard disk drive in the cloud and it comes in five different flavors. 
 So we've got General Purpose SSD which is what we've been using so far. 
 We've got provisioned ops which has also SSD so this is where you want really really fast input outputs 
 per second. 
 We then have throughput optimize hard disk drive. 
 This is actually a physical hard disk drive. 
 So it's not SSD it's magnetic. 
 So this is where it's going to be optimized for throughput. 
 We then have our cold hard disk drive again this is magnetic and then we also just have magnetic. 
 So let's look at the different use cases for each one. 
 So let's start with general purpose SSD so our SSD are broken down into general purpose and provisioned 
 IEPs. 
 General purpose is basically designed for SSD volumes of balanced price and performance for a wide variety 
 of transactional workloads and essentially its use case is most workloads. 
 Now these API names you will need to know going into your exam. 
 It does come up. 
 They do sometimes use the API names they certainly do it in the certified CIS ops administrator associate 
 exam as well. 
 So general purpose SSD is GP 2 and it's suitable for workloads up to 16000 IEPs per volume if you start 
 going above 16000 ops you're going to need to go over to provision Di ops and provision de ops SSD is 
 the highest performance SSD volume and it's designed for mission critical applications so your workloads 
 here will be databases and the good thing about provisioned AI ops SSD is it's capable of going up to 
 64000 IEPs per volume. 
 Now we then have over here all our different hard disk drive options. 
 So we've got our throughput optimized hard disk drive our cold hard disk drive and then our IBS magnetic 
 so throughput optimize is obviously for optimize throughput so where you would use this would be things 
 like big data and data warehousing it's known as S T1 and it's maximum AI ops per volume is going to 
 be 500 cops per volume you cold hard disk drive. 
 This is the lowest cost hard disk drive volume and it's designed for less frequently access workloads. 
 So this could be things like file servers et cetera. 
 So and again the AI Ops on this is not great. 
 It's 250. 
 And we then have IBS magnetic. 
 This is basically previous generation hard disk drive it is still available. 
 So you can still use it in the console. 
 And this is basically for workloads where data is infrequently access so it might be where you're doing 
 a bit of data archiving but for some reason you opt not to use Glazier. 
 And again the AI ops for that is between 40 to 200. 
 So the best way to learn IBS is to go ahead and start playing with it's in the next lecture we're going 
 to learn all about IBS and we're going to look at how we can create new volumes how we can do snapshots 
 how we can resize volumes on the fly et cetera et cetera. 
 So if you've got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.