 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at Airbus volumes as 
 well as snapshots. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the database console. 
 OK so here I am in the adobe console. 
 I'm in the Northern Virginia region. 
 I'm gonna go over to East to hopefully remember where it is right by now. 
 But it is under compute and we've got this easy to instance that's running in here. 
 This is our little web server. 
 We actually go down to volumes we'll be able to see the volume that it's running on and you can see 
 that this volume is in us e 1 D. 
 We go over to our easy to instance by going to the dashboard and clicking on running instances you'll 
 see that the actual virtual machine as is in us e 1 D. 
 And this is a really important topic to remember for your exam wherever your easy to instance is. 
 The volume is going to be in the same availability zone and that makes sense if you think about it. 
 If you think about a physical computer you always want the hard disk drive to be as close to the motherboard 
 as possible. 
 So when you've got a virtual machine and then a virtual hard disk drive you want them to be in the same 
 availability zone you don't want them to be in different Availability Zones because you're going to 
 have a huge amount of lag. 
 So it's really important to remember going into your exam that your IBS volumes will always be in the 
 same Availability Zones as your easy to instance. 
 So another common scenario in your exams will be where you want to move your easy to instance or your 
 IBS volume from one availability zone to another and we'll look at how we can do that in a little bit 
 in this lab. 
 But first thing I want to show you is what happens if we terminate this instance. 
 What is going to happen to this volume. 
 So let's go ahead and kill off our little web server. 
 He's served us well. 
 So going to go over here and go to instant state and click on terminate and I'm gonna go ahead and terminate 
 that. 
 So it is now shutting down my easy to instance go over to my volumes as well. 
 Right now it says it's in use but I'm just going to pause a video for a couple of minutes and see what 
 happens. 
 Okay. 
 So it's been a couple of minutes. 
 I'm just going to hit the refresh button and now you can see that it's removed that IBS volume automatically 
 from my volumes you know console so if we go back over to E2 let's go ahead and launch a new instance 
 we're going to use the amazon Linux 2 am I and I'm gonna go in I'm gonna use a T2 micro gonna leave 
 everything else as default I'm gonna go ahead and add my storage. 
 So and here we can see our storage we've got our root device volume. 
 This is the snapshot of it. 
 It's eight gigs in size is using general purpose SSD. 
 These are the defined Io apps. 
 And over here we can go ahead and encrypted. 
 We're not going to do any encryption yet we will cover that off later on in the course. 
 What we going to do is going to add another three volume so we're gonna go in here and we're going to 
 add cold hard disk drive. 
 We're going to go in and add throughput optimize hard disk drive and we're gonna go through and add 
 magnetic. 
 So we've added three different volumes we're going to do the default sizes and what we're going to do 
 is a bit later on as we're going to go through and promote one of these two provisioned AI ops on the 
 fly. 
 We're not going to do any encryption. 
 Note that when we're adding additional volumes delete on termination is not checked automatically. 
 So we're just gonna leave everything as default. 
 And next. 
 Go ahead and add our tags. 
 Let's go in and add our tags. 
 I'm not going to add any tags. 
 I'm going to use an existing security group. 
 I'm going to use my web DMC which has reached ADP and SSA open to the world. 
 Gonna go ahead and hit review and launch and I'm gonna go ahead and launch that easy to instance. 
 So that will take a couple of minutes to come up. 
 What I'm gonna do is I'm just going to pause the video while I wait for this easy to instance to come 
 live. 
 Okay so that easy to instance is now live and I've actually got a pretty cool IP address I've never 
 seen a three IP address before. 
 So I'm gonna go down and I'm going to have a look at my volume so it's under a plastic block store in 
 here and go ahead and click on volumes and you'll be able to see our different volumes in here. 
 So we've got GDP to this as our route device volumes so this is where our operating system is installed. 
 We've got s t 1. 
 This is our throughput optimized one. 
 We've got SC 1. 
 This is our cold hard disk drive and then we've got standard. 
 And this is our standard magnetic volume. 
 Remember this is previous generation so let's go ahead and have a look at what we can do with these 
 volumes. 
 So if we go to s T1 we can go to our actions we can go and modify our volumes. 
 We can actually just go in and change the size so we could increase this from 500 gigs to 1000 gigs 
 and go ahead and hit modify and that will go ahead and modify the volume. 
 Now it says here that it may take some time for a performance changes to take effect. 
 So it will you know it will impact on your performance and it may take some time for it to take effect 
 because it is increasing the hard disk drive of it. 
 And you also may need to extend the grading system file system on the volume to use it so your operating 
 system might only see the 500 initially what you will might have to go in and do is you have to go in 
 and run a command and basically re partition the drive so you'll be able to see the full 1000 and you 
 can actually learn about how to do that by clicking on the Linux or Windows 1. 
 Again it's beyond the scope it's certified Solutions Architect course as to how to do this. 
 We do cover it off in the certified SAS ops administrator associate course. 
 However let's go ahead and modify this volume and that is now increasing this volume from 500 gigs to 
 1000. 
 Another one will have a look at let's go over to GP 2. 
 So this is our route device volume and there isn't you can find that it's the route device volume is 
 it's come from that HDMI it's come from that Amazon machine image the Linux Amazon Linux 2 am I and 
 this is the snapshot so we're basically using Amazon's snapshot of that HDMI and we can go over here 
 and modify this volume and we can change the volume type we can actually go up to provisioned ops so 
 instead of staying at GP 2 we could modify it to provision ie ops. 
 And again this will affect the performance of the easy to instance. 
 But notice that you don't have to go and shut it down or stop the instance or anything like that. 
 You can do it on the fly so it is really really clever technology. 
 So I'm just going to pause video I'm going to wait for this to upgrade to provision day ops and I'm 
 going to wait for one of these to upgrade to 1000 gigs so I'm just gonna pause video now. 
 So it's been a couple of minutes I'm just gonna go ahead and hit refresh and we can see that this is 
 now Io one and we can see that this is now 1000 gigs so it took a little bit of time. 
 This is actually still just coming into use but it only to actually took a couple of minutes which is 
 pretty amazing when you think about it. 
 Not only are we changing the storage medium but we're also increasing the amount of storage available 
 so it is pretty cool tech. 
 So one of the things a very popular exam question is let's say that you've got your easy to instance 
 and your IBS volume in a particular availability zone. 
 So in US is one B for example you wanna move it to us e one C How do you go about doing that. 
 Well the easiest way to do that is to go into action is to find your root device volume and or your 
 volumes depending on the scenario. 
 QUESTION But let's just say it's the root device volumes you want to move this root device volume to 
 another availability zone let's go ahead and see how we do that so we go to actions and we're gonna 
 go and create a snapshot and a snapshot is exactly what you would think it is it's basically a photograph 
 of the desk and I'm gonna call this my easy to snap 2019 something like that and then I'm going to go 
 ahead and hit create snapshot. 
 And that is now creating a snapshot and snapshots do take a little bit of time you can find snapshots 
 here under CBS if you click on there it sometimes won't even show up in here for a couple of minutes 
 you can see that is pending. 
 So while that is I'm just going to pause video and wait for this to come back up online. 
 OK so that snapshot has now been completed and you can see it in here. 
 Now with our snaps what we can do is we can go ahead and create an image or we can create another volume 
 we create an image we can then use that image to be deployed into other Availability Zones. 
 So let's go ahead and create our image. 
 Okay. 
 So we're going to give our image a name we're going to call it my easy to image something like that 
 and you can leave everything else as default. 
 One thing I will point out to you though is the virtualization types you've got two different types 
 of virtualization types with AWB. 
 You have para virtual or each VM virtualization. 
 If you have your mouse over you can read this. 
 It says when you launch an instance from an EMI it uses either para virtual Peavey or hardware virtual 
 machine virtualization each VM and each VM virtualization uses hardware assist technology provided by 
 the AWB platform with each VM virtualization the guest VM runs as if it was on native hardware platform 
 except except that it still uses P the network and storage drivers for improved performance. 
 Some instance type support both Peavey and each VM while others support only one or the other. 
 So essentially if you are creating an image from an IBM snapshot you want to add you want as many different 
 easy to instance types as possible. 
 You want to make sure that this is on hardware assisted virtualization and that is the default one now. 
 So make sure this is hardware assisted virtualization that will give you a lot more different easy to 
 instance types to launch this image from later on. 
 So let's go ahead and hit create and let's go ahead and hit close and once that image has been created 
 will then be able to go and use that image to provision new easy instances. 
 We can see our images over here under admires. 
 So if I go in here we can see that image is now available I can go ahead and click on that and go ahead 
 and hit launch. 
 And now you can see all the different easy two instances that are available to us. 
 So we wanted to choose the T2 micro and I'm going to go over and hit next to configure our instance 
 details. 
 If your screen looks like this when you are trying to deploy your easy to instance means that your virtualization 
 type was set to power virtual instead of hate VM. 
 So bear that in mind. 
 IBM will often give you much more different. 
 Easy to instance options. 
 So go ahead and hit next. 
 And then what we can do is we can launch that into a completely different subnet. 
 Okay. 
 Go and launch into us e 1 A so completely different availabilities own. 
 And sorry sometimes I interchange subnet and availability zone. 
 We will cover off what they are in the VPC section of the course but for now just note that we can launch 
 this into us e 1A. 
 I'm going to go in I'm going to add my storage at my tags and not do any tags. 
 I'm going to use the existing security group. 
 I'm going to use my web DMC review on launch and I'm gonna go ahead and launch that. 
 Now you don't have to go ahead and do this. 
 I'm just showing you how we can migrate data from one UBS instance or one easy to instance in one availability 
 zone to another so the first thing you do is you go ahead and you create a snapshot. 
 You then turn that snapshot into an am I and then you use it. 
 Am I to launch in to other Availability Zones. 
 The other cool thing you can do is of course copy the app my in two different regions so we could go 
 in and go here to actions and we could go ahead and hit copy EMI and we can now move this Amazon machine 
 image from our destination regions. 
 So from our existing region so from Northern Virginia and we can go ahead and move this over to London 
 for example and then we can use this image to launch our easy two instances into the London region. 
 So this is a way of not only moving across availability zones but also a way of moving across regions. 
 And the only difference here is we're copying the EMI from one region to another. 
 Once that EMI is in a new region we can then launch it into that region and choose any availability 
 zone that we want. 
 So there is a popular exam questions that will come up in your exam. 
 So let's go back over to E2 and I'm just going to go to my running instances. 
 We can see that we've got our two running instances this is the new one the one that we just launched 
 into us e 1A and we've got one in US is one B. 
 We go over to our volumes we should be able to see our new volume as well. 
 So we've launched this one is just honest GP to standard. 
 Here's our original one which is on provisioned ops. 
 So we learnt right at the start of this lecture. 
 If I go ahead and delete the easy to instance that the root device volume is going to be deleted as 
 well. 
 But what about these additional volumes what do you think will happen if I go in and terminate those 
 two E2 instances. 
 Do you think these three volumes will be terminated along with this one or do you think that they will 
 persist and that again this can be a very popular exam topic so let's go over to our AC two instances 
 and we can test this. 
 So we're gonna go in and click in here and go to actions instant state terminate. 
 So we are terminating both of them and that will go in and terminate them. 
 So I'm just going to pause the video and wait for this instant state to change to terminated. 
 So these have now changed to terminated. 
 Let's go over and have a look at our IBS volumes and you can see that these have persisted there. 
 The state has changed. 
 They're now available but they have persisted on. 
 So when you terminate and easy to instance by default the route device volume will also be terminated. 
 However additional volumes that are attached to that easy to instance will continue to persist. 
 So do bear that in mind. 
 So the next thing we want to do is just go ahead and delete these volumes so I'm going to go in and 
 go delete volumes and go ahead and hit yes delete and that has now deleted our volumes. 
 I'm gonna go through and delete my snapshots and my admire because I don't want to be you know racking 
 up charges or willy nilly. 
 So I'm just going to go in and delete that sometimes if you do delete a snapshot too quickly after terminating 
 an easy to instance you will get this error so you can just come back and do that in a little bit. 
 And then in terms of my am I just gonna go in here and go ahead and deregistered this HDMI. 
 So we've now cleaned it all up. 
 So just remember that volumes exist on CBS and just think of IBS as a virtual hard disk drive in the 
 cloud. 
 Remember that snapshots exist on S3. 
 So when we created that snapshot that's going to take a photo and that photo is stored on S3. 
 And like I said Just think of snapshots as a photograph of the desk. 
 Remember that snapshots a point in time copies of volumes when you take that snapshot. 
 That's how that volume existed at that particular point in time. 
 Snapshots are also incremental. 
 So this means that only the blocks that have changed since your last snapshot. 
 A move to S. three. 
 So if we went on if we took a snapshot and then created a new file and on that volume and then we took 
 another snapshot only the blocks only the delta the changes between the blocks would be basically replicated 
 to S three. 
 So snapshots are incremental. 
 I remember that if it's your first snapshot it may take some time to create. 
 Now to create a snapshot for UBS volumes that serve as a route device volume shooter. 
 You should really stop the instance before taking the snapshot especially if it's a production workload 
 and that will just guarantee that your snapshots are going to be consistent. 
 However you can definitely still take a snapshot while the instance is running. 
 Remember that you can create armies from both volumes and snapshots as well. 
 So that's what we did we created a an EMI from our snapshot but you can also create an army directly 
 from the volume you don't need to have to take a snapshot first. 
 You can do it either way and you can change IBS volume sizes on the fly and that includes changing the 
 size and the storage type and volumes will always be in the same availability zone as the easy to instance 
 so you'll never have a volume in one in availability zone and your easy to instance in another. 
 Then in terms of migration just remember that we can migrate easy to volumes from one availability zone 
 to another to do that we simply need to take a snapshot of it then create an army from the snapshot 
 and then use that EMI to launch the easy to instance in the new availability zone. 
 Likewise we can move easy to instances from one region to another by taking a snapshot of it creating 
 an EMI of the snapshot and then copying the AMA from one region to another and we then use the copied 
 EMI to launch the new easy to instance in the new region. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys in the next lecture we're going to just quickly compare the different 
 types of UBS volume types so we've got UBS and then we've got instant store so we will cover that off 
 and then we're going to look at encryption and how we can use encryption with UBS volume so if you've 
 got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.