 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to look at the two different 
 types of amazed that you can launch. 
 So we've got IBS which we covered off in the last lecture and then we've also got instant store and 
 this does actually come up in the exam. 
 I did the exam just a few days ago and you are definitely quizzed on this so you need to understand 
 the difference between CBS and instant store. 
 So when you go and select your A.M. I am we're going to do this very shortly. 
 You can basically select your EMI based on a number of different factors so you can select it on regions 
 you can select it on the operating system you can select it on the architecture. 
 So this could be 32 bit or 64 bit you can select it based on launch permissions and then finally you 
 can also select it based on the storage for the device or otherwise known as the root device volume 
 and you get two different options here you get instant store which is sometimes referred to as ephemeral 
 storage and then you have an e-business back volume and we've been using IBS back volumes throughout 
 the whole of this course so far in this lecture what we're going to do is we're going to go and launch 
 a an I using instant store as well as one using IBS volumes we're going to look at the differences before 
 we do that though. 
 I just want to let you know that at all. 
 EMI is a categorizes either backed by UBS or backed by instant store. 
 So it's one or the other. 
 So for UBS volumes the route device for an instance launched from the AMC is an Amazon UBS volume created 
 from an ETF snapshot. 
 For instance store volumes. 
 However the route device. 
 So the route device volume is basically where the operating system is installed. 
 So the route device volume is created from a template that's actually stored in S3. 
 So they are quite different. 
 So let's log into the adobe console and have a look. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the IWC console I go to services again we're going to go over to easy to compute and 
 we're going to launch two different instances and we'll go through it very very quickly. 
 So first one we're just gonna do it as standard. 
 So we're gonna do our Amazon Linux 2 a.m.. 
 We're gonna leave everything as default again everything as default. 
 I'm not going to add any tags. 
 I'm going to use my existing security group Web DMC. 
 And I'm going to go ahead and hit launch and I'm going to acknowledge that I've got my keep em. 
 So there we go we've launched our Amazon Linux EMI and that is now in a pending state to be launched. 
 Let's go launch a second instance. 
 But instead of going through and choosing Amazon Linux 2 am I. 
 Let's go over to our community allies and in here we can sort by operating system we can sort by architecture 
 and we can sort by the root device type and we can select instance store. 
 So I'm going to go ahead and launch an instant store one I'm just going to use the default one at the 
 top and you can pick anyone that you want. 
 Now notice because I am launching an instant store it restricts the number of instance types that I 
 can choose and basically the smallest one I can choose is a m3 medium. 
 So I'm going to go in and choose that. 
 You don't have to do this if you want to not come out of Free TV you can just watch what I do on my 
 screen and I'll leave everything else as default in here notice the volume type is instant store and 
 if you read up here it says your instance will be launched with the following storage device settings 
 you can attach additional instant store volumes to your instance. 
 You can also attach additional IBS volumes after launching an instance but not instant store volumes. 
 So if we do want additional instant store volumes we have to do it here. 
 We can't go on and add additional ones later. 
 I'm going to leave this as default. 
 So I'm just going to leave everything here as default and I'm going to go in and add my tags and I'm 
 not going to do any tags. 
 I'm going to use an existing security group. 
 I'm going to use my web DMZ. 
 I'm going to go ahead and review and launch and I'm going to go ahead and launch that. 
 So now we're going to have to see two instances one with an instance store and then one with normal 
 IBS backed and the way we can tell the difference between them is the size of my T2 micro is IBS backed 
 and that's in USD S1 B my M3 medium that's in us e 1 C and that is going to be instant store back. 
 So just going to pause the video and wait for this to come back up on line. 
 Okay. 
 That is now available so if we go over to volumes we'll be able to see just one volume so we can't even 
 see our instant store volume here we can only see our EVP s backed volume and you'll notice if we go 
 in here actually let's go back over to our instances and if we go and click on here we're able to go 
 to actions instance state and hit stop and we can go ahead and stop this instance. 
 And if we stop this instance all the data on our e-business backed volume will persist. 
 So it's persistence storage. 
 But if I click up here and I go over to my actions and go to my instant states all I can do is reboot 
 this instance or Terminator I cannot stop it at all. 
 And that's because it's instant store backed by wondering well what does that mean. 
 Well if we go over to our status checks here and if you remember that we have two different status checks 
 we could our system status checks and our instant status checks. 
 Let's say we've got an instant store volume and this is sitting on top of a hypervisor and our hypervisor 
 starts to fail our system status check will start to say something like impaired and what you would 
 normally do with IBS is you'd basically go and stop that easy to instance and then you started again. 
 And when it starts it will load up on another hypervisor so you can you know stop your instances from 
 you know having issues with the underlying hypervisor simply by stopping them and starting to get them 
 again. 
 And I'll start off on another hypervisor. 
 You can't do that with an instant store volume so if this underlying hypervisor does have any type of 
 issue and for some reason completely stops that's it. 
 You're going to lose all the data on your instant store volume and for that reason it's called ephemeral 
 storage. 
 So we're going to do now so I'm just gonna go ahead and terminate this instance because it is costing 
 me money it's not within free to and I'm going to terminated and there like I said you can't actually 
 set in volumes because it's not an elastic block store and CBS volume it's an instant store volume. 
 So onto my exam tips. 
 So we learned that instant store volumes are sometimes called ephemeral storage so the reason for that 
 is if for some reason they're stopped you're going to lose all of your data instant store volumes cannot 
 be stopped. 
 If the underlying house fails then you're going to lose your data. 
 So that's all I mean is if some reason it stopped for some reason the underlying house fails you are 
 going to lose all your data on your virtual hard disk drives with UBS backed instances they can be stopped 
 and you're not going to lose the data on that instance if it is stopped and you can reboot both. 
 And you're not going to lose any of your data. 
 It's basically only if the host fails and that easy to instant stops and it's instant store then you 
 will lose your data. 
 And then by default to both root volumes will be deleted on termination. 
 However with UBS volumes you can always tell AWB to keep the route device volumes you can't do that 
 with instant store. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys. 
 If you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next lecture where we're going to look at encryption with IBS.