 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay hello bloggers and welcome to this lecture and this lecture we're going to talk about encrypted 
 root device volumes so route device volume is basically just the hard disk that has your operating system 
 on it. 
 So it's that CBS volume that has your operating system on it and it used to be that you couldn't actually 
 encrypt that when you first provisioned your easy to instance. 
 And this is always a very popular exam topic because it would ask you how to go in and encrypted what 
 you used to have to do is basically provisioning easy to instance with an unencrypted root device volume. 
 You then had to take a snapshot. 
 You then had to make a copy of that snapshot. 
 And when you were making that copy then you could encrypt it and then basically you provision an EMI 
 from that snapshot and then you could launch encrypted root device volumes. 
 So it's a bit of a process to go through and that's why it was a quite a popular exam topic Adobe so 
 completely changed all this now and you can provision route device volumes immediately when creating 
 an easy to instance going to look at how we can do that in this lab. 
 And we're also going to look at if you do have an unencrypted volumes Hakan go in and encrypt them as 
 well. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the adobe us console. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the adobe US management console. 
 Let's go over to services. 
 We'll go over it. 
 Too easy too. 
 And we'll see in here. 
 I've got no running instances of just terminated one. 
 Let me go ahead and launch an instance I'm going to use an Amazon Linux 2 a.m. I'm going to use a T2 
 microbe going to leave everything as default and go at my storage. 
 Now in here this is our route device volume and you can see that it's on general purpose SSD and in 
 here our encryption. 
 This used to never be an option so you never used to be able to change this. 
 Now you can change this and you can go ahead and create an encrypted volume right from the start. 
 So that is an important new feature of IBS. 
 I'm not going to do that for now because I want to show you a way of encrypting your volumes if you 
 create a volume that's unencrypted to begin with. 
 So let's go ahead and at our tags and we'll add a tag or just give this a name as an encrypted root 
 device volume something like that. 
 And yes I did spell encrypted wrong. 
 And so there we go and we'll go over and add to our security group. 
 So going to add this into our web DMZ security group go ahead and hit review and launch and I'm going 
 to go ahead and launch that. 
 Now we're not going to log in to this or do anything to the CDC to instance other than play with it 
 in the console. 
 I'm just gonna pause the video and wait for this instance to come up online. 
 Okay. 
 So that easy to instance is now live and if we go over two volumes under elastic blocks store we can 
 see it in here and you can see that this isn't encrypted. 
 So if we did want to encrypt this or we need to do is go over to our actions and what we want to do 
 is create a snapshot of this volume we're going to call it my on encrypted snap and we're gonna go ahead 
 and hit create snapshot. 
 And I'm just going to pause the video and wait for this snapshot to come live. 
 So I'm just gonna pause video here okay. 
 That is now live. 
 And if we look under encryption here we can see that it is not encrypted when click in here. 
 And what we can do is go over to our actions and go over to copy. 
 And then when we're copying we can say hey encrypt this snapshot and then ask us what key that we want 
 to use. 
 So I'm just going to use my standard CBS key and then in here is our description. 
 So I might just change this to encrypted and then snap and then I'm gonna go ahead and hit copy. 
 So now we're creating a copy of our Snapshot and we are changing it from being unencrypted to being 
 encrypted in here. 
 It's going to pause video and wait for this to come back up online. 
 We can see in here that that is now live. 
 And it is encrypted. 
 The next thing we want to do is go ahead and create an image of this man I call it my encrypted encrypted 
 image and we're gonna go ahead and hit create that is then going to create an encrypted EMI and then 
 we can use that EMI EMI to launch encrypted easy to instances. 
 So that's how you take an unencrypted route device volume and you basically create a snapshot of it. 
 You then copy the snapshot and enable encryption. 
 You then create a EMI from that snapshot and then you can launch that easy to instance as an encrypted 
 root device volume. 
 So that could come up in the exam if they say hey you've already got you know you've got an unencrypted 
 root device volume you need to encrypt it. 
 How do you do it. 
 That's the process. 
 But what. 
 Like I said it used to be that you couldn't have encrypted route device volumes. 
 And it was a very popular exam topic as to how to go and encrypt them. 
 Now you can encrypt them just by launching an encrypted route device volume. 
 So just be aware of that going into your exam just going to wait for this. 
 Am I to come live now. 
 My apologies it already is live. 
 So what we could do is we could go ahead and hit launch and we could go ahead and launch this as an 
 easy to instance and you'll see that it is already encrypted by default if you click in and go not encrypted 
 you'll see it's giving you a warning message and saying what needs to be encrypted as the selected snapshot 
 is encrypted so you can't take a snapshot that's encrypted and then launch it as an unencrypted volume 
 either. 
 So I'm not going to go ahead and do that. 
 We're just going to go ahead and cancel. 
 Feel free to go in and delete that instance as well as going in and deleting the snapshot and the am 
 I. 
 And let's go onto my exempt apps. 
 So just remember that snapshots of encrypted volumes are encrypted automatically. 
 So if you do take a snapshot of an encrypted volume it's going to be encrypted automatically volumes 
 restored from encrypted snapshots are encrypted automatically as well. 
 You can share snapshots but only if they are unencrypted and these snapshots can also be shared with 
 other AWOL accounts or made public. 
 But they have to be unencrypted and you can now encrypt group device volumes upon the creation of an 
 easy to instance if for some reason you didn't do that and you had an unencrypted root device volume 
 the process for making it encrypted is to create a snapshot of the unencrypted root device volume. 
 You then need to create a copy of the snapshot and select the encrypt option. 
 You then need to create an am I from the encrypted snapshot and then you use that EMI to launch new 
 encrypted incidences. 
 So that is it for this lecture everyone if you have any questions please let me know if not feel free 
 to move onto the next lecture. 
 Thank you.