So let's talk about the concept of managed identities.
Now, when you have an application within Azure, it's going to run under some security context.
If we go under this app service, I'm going to click on it and we go under settings.
We can see it says identity.
Microsoft Azure has has defined what's called a system assigned managed identity to this by default.
I built this app in Visual Studio.
I published it to Azure and it created.
A managed identity now you can see it's like a grid identity here.
Now, the concept here is that this is the user under which this application runs, and then I can use
our back to assign permissions to this application.
So if I want this application to be able to read and write from storage containers, I can go and I
can say, OK, well, let's go into a storage scope.
I can pick one of these storage concepts and then I can say, OK, I want them to be a and there's are
there are storage contributor role.
And so for this application, I'm giving it our back control, which is reading, writing, deleting,
updating those types of things to contribute or access to this resource group as a as a storage account
just to like that.
And it will add this assignment.
Now we can see that our back does work on SQL databases, on resource group and subscription level.
So if you want to give someone access, you want to give your application access to your subscription,
you can certainly do that.
We were just talking about Tybalt and you can get grant your application access to Key Vault.
So if I go under here, I can see Covault scope to the to the resource group here and then I can I can
see the different key vault options so I can secret user in a secret in a reader only and certificates
and things like that.
These are predefined rules for key vault.
Now there's another way at this rate.
So I mean the, I mean the application managed identity and then I'm adding rules to what I'm going
to discard that if I go up to the key vault level and I go under access policies, I can see that as
the owner.
I have obviously full access to this key vault.
But I can say add access policy and I can choose.
The application that we were just talking about now has a go.
I think I copied it.
There it is.
So this is the application we were just looking at.
And so now I'm in the key vault and I'm saying this is the permissions that I want.
Instead of choosing, you can see choose from template.
So there's already a secret management, secret certificate management, key and secret management.
You can mix and match that.
But if none of those are good for you, you can give them specific permissions like this user can only
read and list the secrets and that's it.
And I say add and now the keyboard app has permission to this key vault.
You have to hit save, though, so manage identity basically is a user that can be created by you or
system assigned that relates to an application, not a person, and then you can give it permissions.
