Now let's look at a couple of the patterns I'll pick I picked out a couple of patterns here from the
design pattern database.
One of them is called a competing consumers pattern.
Now this competing consumers pattern is when you have messages coming into a system and you want to
have more than one service that's going to end up reading those messages and how do you handle having
multiple services trying to read messages from the same cue.
The analogy here would be like an email inbox.
If you've got your customers around the world emailing you support at your company dot com and you have
a hundred call center agents who are answering these emails.
How do you coordinate between them so that they don't read the same email and duplicate the effort in
responding to them.
So that's sort of the problem in a large system with lots of messages.
You also do want to have the option of having more than one person responding because if you only have
a single person responding to all of your customer email support tickets that's a potential backlog
right.
Those messages can can pile up.
Those customers are getting responded to in a slower fashion.
So having multiple readers is an essential part of a large scale enterprise scale application.
So Microsoft says it can continue competing consumer's pattern that we're going to implement some type
of messaging technology in between.
So the messages come in maybe the standard e-mail inbox is not a great piece of software.
Like you're not all sharing Microsoft Outlook.
But if you used a storage bus queue then the storage bus queue actually takes care of giving one message
to one reader and preventing the other readers from seeing that message until the message is complete.
So different queuing systems have different functions and features.
But having a message queuing system that's able to differentiate between multiple readers and basically
prevent them from seeing the same messages then this is great in terms of scalability reliability.
You take the burden off of those customer service agents from having to coordinate between each other
to say Did you see this e-mail.
Have you read this yet.
You don't have to invent your own locking system your own blocking system.
The message queue takes care of that etc..
So if you go into the Web site the architecture Web site you'll find the competing consumers pattern
and it'll talk about the order of the messages and what happens if the messages let's say the message
is bad they call them poison messages.
If the contents of the message doesn't make sense then you don't want to read that over and over and
over and over you want to basically try that a couple of times and then throw that into a poison cube.
So these are all the issues and considerations for using a competing consumer's pattern.
Another common pattern is called the cash side pattern.
Now I've used this in the past when you've got a Web site that goes to a database frequently to read
data.
Now we had a Web site that was for recipes and you know we had a big customer who would create recipes
throw that into a database and our website would read that that database.
Now the thing is when you go to read a recipe I'm talking food recipes here where you've got ingredients
and instructions etc. So when you go to a database to read a recipe your expectation is the second time
you read it.
And the third time you read it it's gonna be the same.
Recipes don't change that frequently.
Yes the content manager might go and update updated resume a recipe every few months but it's not updating
on a minute moment by moment basis.
So we can use a caching system in between the application and the data store so that we can basically
check the cache to see if the recipe has already been read.
If not we go to the data store read the recipe store that in the cache so that next time we can go to
the cash to check the recipe it's there and then we are basically saving ourselves a more expensive
trip across the network to a database server.
The CPO cycle is involved in that throttling on database reads cetera.
So we're basically lessening the load for something like this.
Now this pattern is not great if your entire catalog can fit into a cash comfortably so in the case
of recipes we only had about a thousand of them quite possibly we could have just loaded the recipes
into memory and not use the database at all except the next time that the application loads into memory
maybe once every hour or something like that.
So this cash aside pattern is great when the data doesn't often change but not great when the whole
entire data might fit into memory like the states of the United States or the provinces of Canada.
Maybe you don't want to necessarily have a pattern like this for that because that never changes.
There's never a new state and there's never a new province.
And those things are small enough that they can fit into memory and just sit there forever so that that
would be different a different pattern if we wanted to load that all up.
Finally another interesting pattern is the data store sharking pattern.
Now we've talked about charting in this course a little bit but this context is basically you've got
a large amount of data and you might be terabytes of data and you're going to store that into like an
Azure sequel database.
Well at some point it doesn't make sense to have a single Azure single database to hold all that data
and you might see some performance schemes and some maybe some pricing and scaling and other considerations
by storing that data in multiple databases.
And there are a number of different solutions for that the way the algorithms essentially that you do
for sharking.
One is you could have a lookup table so every record is in in sort of a map charting map.
Another thing is you can just say a range.
So all customers from one to a million live here all customers from a million in one to two million
live there.
You know you have a very simple logic it's it's doesn't mean you have to look up every individual customer.
And finally you can just have some other type of logic like caching which would randomly distribute
customers to different databases and then you can just hash their their I.D. you know repeatedly every
time you want to look them up you hash it and it'll tell you what database to look up.
So there's a number of different strategies within the starting design pattern.
It's definitely worth if you're dealing with charting and dealing with large quantities of data.
Definitely reading Microsoft's official guidelines to that.
So basically go to the Azure architecture center look up the our application guide is definitely worth
a read through to reinforce some of the concepts that you've been learning here.
And once you're into creating applications in the cloud look at the different design patterns that already
exist and you might find something that is a solution to a problem that you're having that you don't
have to then make up your own solution.
These solutions have already been thought through and these are the best practices for designing applications
in the cloud.
