Well congratulations.
This is it.
This the last video of the course I want to thank you so much for both signing up for this class and
completing it.
That's a major accomplishment.
So congratulations and thank you for that.
What do you do now.
Now you've finished all the videos.
What should you do first of all you can go ahead and book the test if you haven't booked it already.
You may have already booked the test but if you haven't go to Microsoft's Web site schedule a test not
too far away.
Now that you finished the course you can give yourself a relatively short amount of time to go in and
take the test.
You might want to do the practice questions this course contains some practice questions and there are
the practice questions out there if you search for them so you can do some practice questions now you've
taken this course.
I've sprinkled some assignments into this course as well.
And so you can go ahead and if you haven't had a chance yet go and do the assignments or if you have
review those.
Certainly you can re watch the videos you have access to these videos for a long time so go ahead and
re watch the videos.
Microsoft has some great free documentation on their docs site so check out Microsoft docs if you want
to learn more and get into the nitty gritty details of any particular function and feature Microsoft
Azure.
I actually like the Microsoft dot com slash learn web site.
I think there's lots of good little micro learning opportunities some hands on stuff there may as not
to too deep or complicated but you'll get in there it gets it's actually game fight and there's badges
and points and things it's pretty cool.
Finally you know and I know I don't really have to tell you.
Hands on experience is really going to help you out.
So if you do have some time between now and you take the test get into Microsoft Azure go through the
requirements of this exam one more time and anything that you don't have 100 percent confidence on.
Go ahead into the into the portal create yourself a resource set this up get something running and you
can figure out what what works what doesn't work why you would do something etc. Anyways I want to thank
you again for signing up this is this has been great.
If you've left a review already thank you so much you can absolutely update your review if you've got
more to say or if you haven't had a chance to leave or review your review can really help this course.
Other students are looking for in this information and so rankings and things like that your review
is very important so leave an honest review.
Thank you very much for that.
I do appreciate it.
That's it.
That's the end of this course.
And have a great day.
Good luck on the test.
