All right so let's choose the single database option.
Now I alluded to it in this video but there's two concepts here.
There's the database server and the database itself.
Just like in Cosmo's D.B. has an account and a database as well so let's call this database a Z as G.D.
new D.B..
THIS IS THE DATABASE NAME within our within our Azure account.
I'm going to put this on my usual subscription.
I only have the one.
And this is going to be different for you if you about the free plan or the MSD n or your corporate
plan.
We do have to put this into a resource group I'm going to put this into sequel D.B. Resource Group.
Now we do have the option of starting with some data in it.
So adventure works has been a long time simple database and a lot of Microsoft projects over the years.
So we do have the adventure works LTE database available if we want some sample data.
We can also point to a backup file.
So if you've got a backpack file that's been backed up from your database.
Let's say it your SQL server in your local environment.
You want to back that up into a backpack file.
There is the option for you to restore that database into an Azure SQL database right within this setup.
Now I wouldn't necessarily do this during the setup I would start as a bank database and then create
that import after.
But we do have those three options when we're creating it now.
Now for the server.
So this was the the database but if the database has to live in a server I don't have any sequel servers
Azure cycle databases that are ready to go so we're gonna create a new one.
Now this one has to be fully qualified.
So this server
I can call it the same name even a z a shady new D.B. because it's dot database dot windows dot net.
So this is by default publicly accessible database that you if you have the URL in the right access
credentials you can.
And it's opened you can connect to it SQL Server you in single database uses a firewall method in here
we're going to get into that later.
But basically you're going to have to whitelist people who are going to be able to get access to this.
But if they're in the white list then they're going to access it using this year.
So just like with a virtual machine you're going to have to give an Administrative user name and password
and pick a physical location a region around the world where we want this database to live.
Now remember I said this runs on a firewall so serve metaphor.
And so it's a checkbox here that says Do we want to allow Azure services access to the server which
is basically opening a hole through the server firewall to allow other other Azure services through
by default.
Ok so let's turn that on unless you have a really busy account and you want to protect this particular
database from other people.
I'm going to say select so we have our blank database is at a shady new D.B..
It's going to be on a blank on the brand new server.
Now this concept of an elastic pool.
This is when you have maybe you want to have multiple databases that are sharing resources so databases
can be a little bit expensive.
And if you're going to have like say your company has 20 databases well you can set them up is 20 single
databases and they all have their own individual resource allocations those are single databases.
But if you put them into an elastic pool you can basically reserve a set amount of resources that all
20 databases end up sharing.
Now you can save some money with this assuming that those individual databases are not all maxed out
using maximum resources at the same time.
So if you've got one database that experienced a surge but the other databases are quiet this is a way
of having the resources shared between it just like a pool suggests because this is a standalone database
I'm going to say not now this is not economical for a single database.
Only when you have multiples pricing so just like a virtual machine we're going to be given options
in terms of pricing Azure has a basic standard and premium in terms of this type of pricing model which
is by performance
we're going to talk about purchasing the resources in a second.
But there's two ways of basically purchasing sequel databases.
One is by performance.
So this basic environment is five D.T. use which is a database transaction units and just like with
web apps using data use is going to be basically a way of comparing the performance.
So if we've got five here on basic if you get a 10 on standard that's a double you would expect double
server performance.
OK.
So it's just a relative metric between different accounts if you need 500 on the premium plan that should
be 100 times more powerful than the basic and you would see that the pricing.
Twenty six hundred dollars compared to seven dollars is also pretty fantastical as well.
Now premium has additional features beyond standard.
But if you're looking at the data use you're basically paying for performance now.
That's just that's one way of purchasing servers the other way is what's called a v core which is by
purchasing these core of the CPE use how many CPE use you want you want to cause for cause.
How much data do you need for cause with 168 gigabytes and 50 gigabytes for logs has a price.
So instead of purchasing you know Microsoft giving you a performance guarantee or a performance promise
you are not getting that you're getting an A dedicated set of CPO for virtual cause of a CPO or an eight
virtual core CPO.
How much data and there's a price associated with that.
You can also choose between generations.
So generation for and generation five you would expect generation five is more performance.
It also supports up to 80 course.
So if you've got a database that really needs you know 80 course OCP you you are looking at twenty one
thousand dollars a month the prices per core you see it's the same price for generation for generation
five.
So that you can actually purchase your database based on CPE and end data or just basically say you
know what.
I just need a basic database and I'm willing to pay for the performance.
I don't care how many cause I don't care you know how big a memory store as long as you can deliver
me this performance.
So I'm going to buy the five the five D.T. use it's the cheapest.
There you go seven dollars Canadian a month about five dollars U.S. a month to see a play
you only get the choice of this collation I think if you are using if you're using different types of
coalition then I would suggest looking at SQL Server looking to look into I mean hopefully the default
collation is good for most situations so you see there's some complexity there setting up databases
and setting up servers I'm going to hit the create button here we'll get into it but I going a positive
video when we come back we're going to have a working single database so we can start playing with it.
