All right so we have our SQL database that got created if I go into my resource groups and I type S
Q Well I can see the resource group that I created and two resources are living in my resource group.
One is the server itself.
This is where we assign the U.R.L. for instance and the database which is where the data the tables
and the functions and the store procedures and things are going to end up being defined.
OK we have multiple databases running on a server.
Now we can check the deployments real quick.
We can see that it took one minute and 38 seconds to create this single database.
So it's pretty quick.
It's just we're just a tenant in an existing infrastructure.
Microsoft has.
OK.
So let's choose to go into the sequel database so we're going to choose SQL database.
Now we do we do have some elements even though this is a database as a service.
Microsoft does tell us the amount of the resources that we're using so remember we signed up for the
the basic plan which has five days to use.
And so if we find ourselves running at high realized resource utilization during peak periods we may
want to consider upgrading to a standard 10 units or other options.
Right now we can see even on the home page we can see our storage used because there's Max utilization
of two gigabytes under this plan and we can actually start to see some of the settings that we have
in terms of performance in terms of backup and recovery geo replication and the different security settings.
So this is all sort of on the home page here
now.
Databases just like a single server running in your environment are connected using connection strings
and so we could click on this and Azure will give us the connection string depending on our language
we can we can see how to connect to this within our within our application code.
OK
now very similar to Cosmos D.B. sic the event another advantage that SQL database has over running a
SQL server in a VM has how easy it is to get geo replication going.
So right now I have a single instance of my database running in candidate ese.
There's no other backups.
Backup storage that's being put all over the world for instance.
But if I wanted to I could set up a geo replication and then that would be another another point at
which applications could read.
So it becomes a read only location on the map.
We have a purple purple region that's going to be the highest speed option and then any of these green
regions we can also deploy are our duplication too.
So let's go into the regions here scrolling down we can see that.
I'm running in Canada East and I can choose Canada Central as a secondary location as an example.
OK.
So it's going to have the same database name it is a read only database.
I would have to create a new server so just like I have the server running in in Canada East to create
that server in Canada Central I just have to go through that bleed.
It's not elastic pool and it's going to be the same pricing tier as the main.
OK so create a new server.
Call this a Z that's a D new TB which has already taken of course PKP for backup
and I give it the administrator
and so I can basically create a server just like I did for Canada Central Canada East in Canada Central.
So Microsoft Azure is gonna take care of creating the database in Canada Central and keeping that database
up to date.
So when I do a write in candidate e that that data gets migrated and replicated into candidate central
as quickly as possible.
It is not instantaneous perfect replication but basically there's going to be a low latency when a when
an event happens and the transaction happens in Canada East.
That data gets into in this case kind of central I should say to now I am paying for two servers so
the seven dollars a month I was paying for Kennedy East I am now at times two because I'm paying the
same for Canada Central.
This is not you know nothing is free.
Right.
So now theoretically I could deploy this now into Europe.
I can deploy it into Asia.
My applications could be intelligent enough to know that it would be quicker if the applications running
in Asia to look up the data and a read only fashion from the Asian environment.
Then to have that app that come to the Canada environment to get that data so we can actually program
our applications with these multiple endpoints and have them geographically aware to say oh in this
region within so many thousand kilometers or miles we're going to connect to this this database.
So that's totally up to you as an application developer to say which when you connect to.
But in this configuration it's a read only instance.
Now there the other benefit of this is the failure.
Right.
So if Canada East for certain right reason whatever reason the data was to get corrupted or the region
was to go down there was to have some sort of technical issue that I cannot access Canada e anymore.
Once this Canada Central's up and running and we can see that the data base has been migrated we can
force a fail over.
There's a way of basically instantiating fail over into Canada Central and then Canada Central becomes
the primary database in Canada East is taken off line until it can be replicated or repaired.
Right.
So the geo replication not only for performance in terms of reading but also for failure in case of
disaster.
So this is the purpose of geo replication.
