All right.
So far we've been looking at the database level so this is what is presumably going to contain our data.
We can even see that there is a browser based query Ed that we can then connect with our user name and
password into to see the database.
But before we do that we want to look at the server.
So we go to the overview screen we can see that this is the server that we created.
We could also go back to our resource group to look at the server as well.
But I'm just going to click on the server name.
It'll take me up to the server level so the server is basically that is a place that hosts the database.
And if I go over down to settings and SQL databases we can see that there is only one database attached
to the server.
If we had them not as single databases but in a pool the pool would be under elastic pools now in this
particular case.
Remember I've told you before that that database servers are protected by firewalls we can see the show
firewall settings right off the overview screen and we did enable Azure other services within Azure
to access this server.
But if we want a another machine to access the server like our local computer we're going to need to
basically whitelist this.
So in order to do this we're going to we're going to basically going to have to add a rule to say that
our home computer our work computer our corporate network is going to be allowed to access this now
very conveniently Azure is telling me what my IP addresses.
So this is the IP on which I am accessing the portal right now.
And if I wanted to whitelist my computer to access this there's this ad client IP button here as well
and I click it and it basically added My local IP whitelist.
So again if your IP is not in this range you are not going to be able to access this SQL database and
that might be perfectly fine for ninety nine point ninety nine nine percent of the world that you don't
want to access your database but if your applications are let's say your applications are mobile apps
and they're going to access the database directly without a service in between then you might have to
have it wide open so the entire internet can access it.
But right now this is a firewall.
We have to whitelist it.
I'm going to a lot white lists my own IP address in order to access it.
So that's sort of a mandatory right now in order for us to work with this.
OK.
So the firewall settings are here we could also connect this to our Active Directory which is not connected.
So if you don't want to set individual user I.D. and passwords to log into the server you can actually
connected to Active Directory we can have service accounts for those applications et cetera.
If we go back to school databases and we navigate back to the database that we want to work with right
now this database does not have any tables on it.
There's no way for us to insert data and go into the query editor and if I was to actually provide my
password here log in we can see that there's there's nothing here.
Now this isn't a very convenient way to work with SQL Server even if you had it on your local if you
had a web interface like this to work with it it would be very inefficient.
So coming up we'll talk about how else we can access this SQL Server.
