All right.
So I'm not a huge fan of this query.
Ed in line it's handy for some things obviously but not to go into that.
What I want to do is I want to access this database using the traditional way which is SQL Server Management
studio.
So if you have had access to SQL server on your local or server environment you might be familiar with
this management software.
If you don't I would recommend that you go find it get it install SQL Server Management studio and this
will allow you to access your databases running in the cloud so I can put in the server name I have
the server the test user you remember my test account that we created when we set it up the admin account.
All right.
So we're able to we're able to connect into this database just as we would a SQL server running in our
data center.
And as we go in to here we can see that we have our database into the server and absolutely no tables
views or anything of user created options whatsoever as we would expect.
So at this point we can then do our normal thing which is to create our databases or run our sequels
scripts whatever it is we want to use to configure this database we can we can do this.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to set this up for our employee.
So we're going to create
255 character first name
255 character last name and then if I click save I have to give it a name and when to call it employee.
So now we have now this isn't a great relation table because we don't have a unique identifier and I.D.
field.
We don't have a primary key on this etc. But this is a valid SQL Server table.
We have our first name and last name.
And so we've created it.
It should be exactly replicate you know represented within the console.
So if I go back into query Ed log in again
then our SQL database now has an Employee table and we can start working in that code or whatever language
we want with inserting and selecting data from our database table.
