So in this section of the course what are we talking about the automation of the deployment of virtual
machines now within Microsoft Azure.
The automation of virtual machines is usually done using arm templates as you know arm is the Azure
Resource Manager model which is the modern way of organizing in deploying resources into Azure.
The opposite of arm of course is the S M model which is the classic deployment model which we don't
use anymore.
So when you do a deployment of a virtual machine you'll usually get a screen like this senior deployment
is complete.
Now we can see if I actually go back to this particular resource group we can see that I've done many
different deployments to this resource group but we're going to focus on the virtual machine one day.
Now one of the options we get when we're looking at deployments is to look at the template.
The template consists of two items there's the template and there's the parameter file we could download
the template which I'm going to do and we're done.
I also want to download the parameter file.
Now the scripts that are being presented the CLIA power shall done in Ruby only exist so that we can
execute this template.
These aren't these are not the powerful equivalents of the template they don't replace the template.
They basically require the template let's look at what has been downloaded so I'm going to click it
to open it and if I bring it back into frame you can see that it's got the template the parameter file
and it has the power show a Seelye Ruby and some C sharp code in order to deploy it.
So there's four different methods to deploy built into this zip file.
We're going to open up these files and we're going to look into them and we'll try to explain how an
arm template is organized and the requirement of the exam.
How do you modify the arm template.
So here we can see inside the template dot Chase on file.
Remember we have both a template and a parameters file.
Now the template Jason File is in the format of a Jason File of course.
The first property is the dollar sign schema property.
The schema refers to the deployment JS deployment template.
Dot Jason U.R.L. and that's a required field.
Now the version number is a version number that you can control.
So you can see here that Microsoft gives us version 1.0 0 point 0 point O but if you wanted to check
this into a source repository if you wanted to use this template as the baseline for your environment
and then make changes to it you can increment this this version number so that you'll know which file
is the most recent etc..
There's also a parameters file there appear to be about 20 or so parameters being passed and we'll review
them when we get into the parameters Jason variables are similar to parameters but you can see that
these are basically computed fields.
So the deployment template is actually taking a resource group function and then the name of the resource
group.
This is being deployed in and constructing a virtual network I.D. based off that.
So this is basically a area where variables are constructed they're not input from external the key
section here is the resources section.
Now this is where all of the resources within this deployment get defined.
We're going to look into that in a little bit more detail in the next video and then scroll down here.
The last section is the outputs.
And so once that everything has been created this armed template is going to be able to return the admin
user name as its output even though that's a parameter that's being passed as input.
But this is the verification that this works.
Okay.
So this is the basic overview of what an armed template looks like.
If we flip over to the parameters file we can see that there's gonna be one parameter for each of the
parameters defined by the template so the template has a location parameter which is a string and in
the parameters file the location is being sent to central U.S..
Now the way that it's got these values is that when we created this resource within the Azure portal
we chose central U.S. as the location Azure portal created a new virtual virtual network interface named
for us and we accepted it.
We could have changed it and that got set into the here as well.
So all the values in here basically come from our selections our choices as we were creating the resource
in the portal.
Now that's the basic overview of the the arm template in the next video we're going to look at editing
this and then being able to do deployments based on our edits.
