So let's start with the minimum required changes to this file in order to create a new virtual machine
going over the parameters file.
We're going to leave it in the same region but the Azure network interface card is going to have to
get a new name so I'm going to call it a Z new nick one two three.
I'm going to keep the same network security group.
No security rules aren't changing.
We'll launch it in the same virtual network.
So we're not going to change the virtual network name or the subnet name.
It's going to need a new public IP address.
So we're going to slightly change the public IP address name.
Leave the other settings the same.
We're going to give the virtual machine itself it's a new name.
So we're getting the virtual machine.
We'll be have a new name the public IP address will be new and the network interface card will be new.
OK so those are the three things that are required for this VM to be launched side by side in the same
resource group in the same region as its brother leave the disk the same user name we're going to have
to specify a password here it's no because Azure doesn't doesn't give it to us when we download the
template but we're going to put something in here and I'll leave this to other settings the same I'm
gonna hit save on this.
Now we won't modify the template itself just yet.
Now you might ask yourself what's going to happen the network interface card will be the same but the
network security group is not actually changing the no security group name is the same.
The other thing that's the same is the schedule for instance.
And so although the schedule itself it's a dynamically generated thing but.
But anyways what's going to happen with this virtual network the virtual network and the network security
group.
OK.
Those two things.
Well this is the great thing about the way that arm templates work.
If you are specifying a resource that already exists let's say this name has already already exists
all that Azure is going to do when you deploy it again.
Is this going to validate that the properties of that resource match what you have now specified so
you can deploy the same virtual network again and again every hour if you wish with the same properties
and Azure is just going to review this verify that that network exists verify all the properties are
still the same.
And then it's going to end up doing nothing that is called that that it's called DSC.
Right.
That's desired state configuration.
So you could take the baseline of your environment and run it in an automation and every 20 minutes
or every hour you can read redeploy redeploy redeploy your environment and that using desired state
configuration will just ensure that there's no properties that are changing that no one is logged into
the portal and it's changing things that are not defined in the file.
OK that's a sort of a separate topic but I'll just point out that armed templates you can deploy them
again and again and it doesn't actually affect the resource as long as the properties are the same.
So we're going to take these parameters we're going to take this template unchanged and we're going
to deploy this and we're going to let it make a brand new VM for us with a brand new public IP address
and a brand new network interface card.
