All right so we're going to rerun this deployment script one more time.
Now before I did that let's just review that very quickly you'll see the first step of running this
deployment is to log into your Azure account.
So we expect Azure will pop up with a modal dialog box and we'll have to enter our user D and password.
It will run some commands like select Azure subscription to to choose our subscription.
It checks to see that the resource group already exists and if it doesn't then it creates a new resource
group.
So the resource group creation is part of this deployment script and then it does the deployment.
So it's new hyphen Azure our resource group deployment.
That is what kicks off the deployment takes in the template file the parameter file in the Resource
Group.
One thing that I added to this was the parameter name deployment thing.
This is a funny script because it requires let's go back up here deployment name is a required parameter
but then it's never used.
So I guess I decided to to name the deployment as what I tell it.
All right so I'm going to pause this I'm going to start up power show and then we're going to continue
so I just started windows power shell.
First thing we're gonna do is we're going to switch over to the directory in which our script is stored
and so we're going to see these two that directory unfortunately this awful name is really long and
it's going to wrap around some of these commands.
Now before we can execute the script like you might be tempted to just say you know deploy
you might be tempted to do that but then that will give you an error.
Actually I can.
I can show that to you.
This will not work because there's this cult thing called execution policies and this piece one file
is an unsigned file and we have restrictions by default within power show.
So I've got a command here that is called set execution policy and
we're going to copy this command paste it into the power show window and it's basically saying do we
want to turn off execution policy protection and yes we do.
So going to see yes.
And now we can run the deployment file but even then the deployment does take some parameters.
So besides to play it up.
Yes.
One passenger subscription I.D. We have to give it a resource name and we have to give it a deployment
name.
These are mandatory parameters in that script.
And a copy that.
So what this will do is this will create a brand new resource group and then will deploy those changes
that we that we made.
OK so I'm going to actually just let her rip.
Now it's going to ask me to log in so I'm going to need to get my username and password here
and now it's going to well it's going to then check to see that our resource group already exists right.
Registering all the resource providers and it's saying resource group does not exist.
So we actually have to create this resource group.
I'm going to put that into central U.S. region.
It's asking me which region.
So I put central U.S. and it's going to create the resource group it says succeeded.
So we saw this in the script.
Now it's calling that new Azure are m deployments as you're our M resource group deployment script command
lit and it's going to basically create those resources for us.
Now if I flip over to the portal we can actually see that in action.
Go see the resource group was just created and now I'm starting to see resources showing up the virtual
network IP address network interface.
And as we go into the deployments folder and we can see the deployment is underway and the virtual machine
is in progress here.
There's a little things.
So our resource our resources are being deployed and we can actually watch it be created.
Going back to the power show it's still running.
So going to let that run and then we can see how that worked.
All right.
So the power shell script has completed.
Remember the power shell the Jason template had an output and that output was the admin user name.
So this signifies that the template was successfully deployed and minimized that.
Go back to the portal and we can see that it also confirms that the deployment is complete.
So if I go back to the A Z 1 0 2 our G I can see that we have our security group becomes disk network
interface virtual network.
So everything that we had in our template is there.
So you can see that you can do a deployment the portal download the J song templates modify them modify
the parameters modify even the deployment script run it and then you'll get resources created automatically.
