Now Windows is not the only operating system available.
Obviously Microsoft does provide Linux variance.
So I went into the cloud.
Shell went into the CLIA bash cloud show and I type this command A-Z VM image list and I output that
to a table so we can see the options for operating systems.
We have four different Windows versions.
We have canonical suits Red Hat core OS etc. So we're going to modify our ALM template.
Let's deploy a Red Hat Linux.
OK so we have the our AGL Red Hat SKU seven point three.
So let me go into the deployment here.
Now this is the arm template that we just deployed.
I'm found the section of virtual machines and the image references one of them.
So remember we have the publisher being red hat.
The offer is h e l and the SKU is I believe seven point three.
Verify that our E show Red Hat seven point three in the H is capitalized.
OK so if we pass in a Linux variant then we're going to be able to deploy the same operating the same
VM the same type of VM but with a different operating system.
So deploying Linux or Windows is just as easy as updating this image reference so let's follow this
off in power shall deploy this template and see a Linux distro that's been deployed
so it's running and says My deployment under way everything has been deployed but the virtual machine
would go into the virtual machine we can see that it is a Linux operating system it's in the process
of being created.
So deploying a Linux virtual machine is not that much different than deploying a Windows virtual machine.
Of course we haven't really dealt with how Linux and Windows how you connect to them differently.
You know SSA just done through a secure key as opposed to these are the password but we'll skip over
that for now.
Basically it's very easy to deploy either Linux or Windows VM using arm templates.
