 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clunkers and welcome to this lecture. 
 So in this lecture we're going to create our very first RDX incident. 
 So this is a lab and you will need to log into the WS console. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the database console. 
 And of course you're gonna find ideas under databases so it here. 
 Just go ahead and click on that. 
 And then what we're going to do is we're going to go in and provision our very first RDX instance. 
 Okay Sir Harry I in the obvious console. 
 I'm gonna go over to RDX which is under databases can note all the different databases in here. 
 The ones that are going to feature in these certified Solutions Architect associate exam are mostly 
 ideas Stoneham IDB elastic cache and redshift that's pretty much it for now who knows when they're going 
 to update the exams. 
 Let's go over to ideas and what we're gonna do is we're gonna go in and provision a database and we're 
 going to call the database a cloud guru. 
 If you haven't gone in before you're just gonna get this splash screen. 
 So go ahead and hit create database. 
 The UI has now changed. 
 So I'm just gonna close this up here and what we're going to do is going to select our engine option 
 type so you'll notice that Aurora is by default the preferred database for ideas Amazon are always going 
 to push out their own product and to be fair to Amazon Aurora is an absolutely amazing product but for 
 the purposes of this lab we're gonna go ahead and do my sequel and we're going to scroll down and you 
 can see you can change your different versions in here. 
 I'm going to leave it at five point seven point to two you can do whatever version you like in here 
 we've got our different templates so production templates. 
 Essentially this is going to give you high availability and fast consistent performance so this will 
 give you multi easy. 
 It also give you a high performing disk and we don't really want this we're probably just gonna go ahead 
 and start off with free tier. 
 In here we've got our DB instance identifier so this will be the name of our instance on of our RDX 
 instance it's not our database name per say it's the name of the RDX instance we're just gonna call 
 it a cloud guru. 
 I'm going to copy that into my clipboard in here we set up our credentials so we've got our master user 
 name going to do it a cloud guru master password a cloud guru and then we confirm our password in here 
 now because we did do the free tier all of this is grayed out and we're just going to do a D.B. T2 micro 
 says one VCU one gig of ram and it's not IBS optimized here we're just going to do normal 20 gigs of 
 storage we do have the ability to do storage auto scaling so this means that you can add storage on 
 the fly as you run out of space and in here you can specify the maximum storage threshold just leave 
 it all as default we're not going to do multi easy yet we're going to do that in another lab in connectivity 
 we've got our default BPC you can click in here for additional connectivity configurations said you 
 want this to be publicly accessible I'm going to say no in here we've got our VPC security groups I'm 
 just going to leave it as the default VPC security group you could go in and create a new one I am actually 
 going to do that I'm going to call it RDX and then launch and then wizard and we'll look at how we can 
 configure that later you can select a preferred availability zone so across the six different availabilities 
 zones in USD one I'm just going to say no preference and you can even change the database port but I'm 
 going to leave it on the My School port of 3 3 0 6 in here we've got our additional configuration options 
 now if you do not specify a initial database name Amazon RDX does not create the database for you so 
 you'd need to go in and use something like p p my ad men or some way of provisioning or using sequel 
 queries to create a database you definitely want a database to begin with so let's type in a cloud guru 
 into there and then in here we've got enable automatic backups I'm actually going to drop this down 
 to zero days and we'll see why because we don't really want automated backups are turned on. 
 Interestingly if you uncheck this box but you leave that as like 7 days it does turn it on automatically 
 it's kind of it's a bit weird so I'm just going to change this to zero days and the backup window you 
 can just do is no preference and then I'm going to scroll all the way down here you've got termination 
 protection so you can basically stop people from going in and deleting it accidentally and you can even 
 select your maintenance windows you could say Hey I just want to do my maintenance at 1 AM every day 
 for half an hour sorry 1:00 a.m. on Sunday for half an hour as you can specify when you know your business 
 finds it acceptable to have some downtime and here you're going to see your estimated monthly costs 
 so let's go ahead and hit create databases now databases can take a little bit of time to provision 
 they're much they are a bit slower than using ideas. 
 Ah sorry. 
 That using easy too easy to can come up in a couple of minutes whereas ideas instances tend to take 
 about five minutes or 10 minutes to come live while we're waiting for that to happen. 
 Let's go over too easy too. 
 I'm going to go in and provision and easy to instance if you still have any instances leftover from 
 the last section of the course feel free to go in and delete them. 
 Gonna use an Amazon Linux. 
 Am I going to use a T2 micro. 
 Just gonna leave everything as standard however the one thing I am gonna do is gonna go down to my advanced 
 details and I'm gonna pass it a bootstrap script. 
 This bootstrap script is available in the resources section of the course. 
 All it's doing is it's installing PSP PSP my sequel as well as Apache since going over to the bar dub 
 dub dub HD mill directory is done leading downloading the latest copy of WordPress and it's unzipping 
 it is then essentially going through and installing Wordpress and changing the permissions on the directory 
 so we can write to that directory. 
 So I'm just gonna copy this into my clipboard and in here I'm just gonna paste it in here. 
 Next thing going to add my storage 8 gigs is fine tags. 
 Add a tag or just call it name. 
 This is word press server. 
 Something like that. 
 Next I'm going to go and configure my security groups. 
 I'm gonna use my web DMZ security group. 
 I'm gonna hit review and launch and then I'm gonna go ahead and launch it and I just got to acknowledge 
 that I have access to the key. 
 Now if you had eagle eyes you would have seen in our security groups that we actually had a couple of 
 different security groups. 
 We had this RDX launch wizard so it's launched using RDX. 
 It's launched our RDX instance into this security group. 
 Now a Web server is in this security group. 
 And the problem is is our Web servers will need to talk to our RDX instances using the my sequel port. 
 So in order to do that we need to allow RDX our security group here to be open to our Web DMZ security 
 group and to do that all we need to do is go in here and we need to go to edit and we can go in and 
 add a rule and we can do it on my cycle. 
 So if we go down to my cycle set down here. 
 So it's going to open up port 3 3 0 6 and in here I can actually just type my security group so I can 
 type in security group and it's going to hopefully be the top one getting a frustrating UI issue where 
 it's just hiding behind. 
 So let me just do this security group 0 6. 
 And there we go. 
 So I'm going to go ahead and hit safe. 
 And so that now allows my sequel in from this security group. 
 So it's allowing our web team our web servers to talk to our ideas instance over the my secret port. 
 So that is now done. 
 If we go back over to E2 we should hopefully be able to see that instance is now up and running. 
 Let's go back over two ideas and see if it's up online yet. 
 So if I just click on my DB instances I'll be able to see it in here and we can see that the status 
 is creating. 
 So I'm just gonna pause the video and wait for this I.D. instance to come up online. 
 Okay. 
 So that is now available. 
 And if we click in here and click on the name of the database you'll be able to see all the different 
 connectivity information as well as monitoring logs and events configuration maintenance and backups 
 and tags monitoring what's obviously going to be tied into cloud watch. 
 So you'll be able to see some cloud Watch metrics in here. 
 We go over to connectivity this endpoint is our DNS endpoint to connect to our RDX instance. 
 And this is what we're going to need in order to install Wordpress. 
 So let's go over to our GC to instance which should now be happily up online. 
 And then what I'm gonna do is I'm going to go to grab the public IP address and navigate it to it in 
 my browser. 
 So I'm just gonna pace my IP address in here and hit enter and straight away I can see the WordPress 
 screen and it is basically asking me for a bunch of information so wants to know my database name my 
 username my password the host and then table prefix. 
 So let's go ahead and hit. 
 Let's go. 
 My database name was a cloud guru. 
 So everything was the same. 
 So a cloud guru. 
 So I'm just gonna paste this in to the different fields. 
 So a cloud guru and then a cloud guru. 
 Now the database hosts this is saying local hosts it's expecting easy to sorry it's expecting my cycle 
 to be installed on our easy to instance. 
 Now of course it isn't. 
 It's installed on RDX instance. 
 So what we need to do is put in our RDX connection address in here. 
 So all we need to do is go back over to easy to go over to RDX and grab our database end point and we 
 just need to paste it in there. 
 So we click on databases and click on our database in here we'll be able to grab the endpoints. 
 We're just grabbing this. 
 You are all here. 
 So copy that into your clipboard and then paste it into here over local host and go ahead and hit submit 
 now right now it's saying it can't write the WP hyphen config file. 
 So we need to do is copy this again into our clipboard. 
 And let's go over to SS H less SS H into our easy to instance and just write this to the file. 
 So here I am in my terminal window. 
 I'm just gonna go over to my easy to instance and then I'm going to elevate my privileges to roots as 
 Sudo. 
 And then I'm going to clear the screen. 
 We're just gonna go to our city. 
 Var dub dub dub hitched here male directory and in here what we want to do is type nano. 
 And then it's WP hyphen config dot BHP and then all we want to do is paste it in here if you get this 
 thing just hit paste and then that will paste in our wp config then get control X and then hit yes and 
 then hit enter. 
 I'll go back over to your browser. 
 So I'm back in my browser and I'm gonna hit run the installation and we'll know that this has worked. 
 If you see this page so let's call our site. 
 Hello cloud gurus and my username I'm going to use as a cloud guru my password. 
 I'm going to use as a cloud carrier which is terribly weak password and then in here just enter an email 
 address if you want and then go ahead and hit install make sure you check this box as well otherwise 
 you won't be able to install anything if you do use a very weak password. 
 So I'm going to go ahead and hit install Wordpress and it's asking me for an email address. 
 I'm going to enter that in and then I'm gonna go ahead and hit install. 
 There we go. 
 It says it's been successfully installed so we've been able to write to our my secret database so wordpress 
 installation has basically gone in and installed the software onto our easy to instance and it's now 
 able to write data to our D.S. instance. 
 So we will come back and start playing with that easy to instance we're gonna add read replicas I'm 
 going to make it multi easy but just remember going into your exam the following point when it comes 
 to RDX so RDX runs on virtual machines it runs on virtual machines but you don't have any access to 
 those virtual machines you can't access each into your RDX instance and that's really really important 
 to remember because it comes up in terms of security questions and also patching and maintenance you 
 can't go in and patch the operating system of your RDX instance that's not your responsibility. 
 That's Amazon's responsibility you can do it for easy to that and that is your responsibility but Amazon's 
 responsible for the patching of both the databases as well as the operating systems that run on them. 
 So patching of the arduous operating system and database is Amazon's responsibility ideas is not service 
 and you will be tested on this later on in the exam. 
 They'll ask you whether or not it's a service technology. 
 Now before everyone jumps up and down screams at me saying the Roar has said there's service Aurora. 
 Yes that's the exception to the rule but overall RDX is not service. 
 It does run on virtual machines and even though you can't access them Amazon can. 
 So ideas is not service. 
 With the exception of Aurora and will cover that often the Aurora lecture and so Aurora service is service 
 but everything else inside ideas is not service. 
 So that is it for this lecture guys if you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move onto the next lecture.