 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello loggers and welcome to this lecture in this lecture we're going to look at. 
 Backups multi easy and read replicas. 
 And we're going to do this in a lab environment see would need to look into the W.S. console. 
 Okay so here I am in the adobe us console. 
 And of course we can find RDX under databases and a click in here and we have our database that we provisioned 
 earlier on and have called it a cloud guru. 
 And if you click on the name of the database you'll be able to see things like connectivity monitoring 
 logs and events configuration and maintenance and backups tags et cetera et cetera. 
 And what we can do is we can do two things and go in and modify the database. 
 We can take some actions. 
 So we could stop this database reboot it. 
 We could delete the RDX instance. 
 We could go ahead and create a Roy Reed replicas. 
 And this is actually a good way of migrating your my sequel databases over to Aurora. 
 You can actually just create a reed replica of the old my sequel database. 
 We can go in and take a snapshot and then we can migrate snapshots. 
 So if we click on take a snapshot that will take a snapshot and it will create a if we were then to 
 restore from that snapshot it is going to create an entire new RDX instance. 
 So if I just click up on to modify what we're going to do first of all is we're going to turn on multi 
 Z. 
 So let's go ahead and hit. 
 Yes. 
 And this will basically go ahead and give us multi Availability Zones for this database. 
 So that's the only change I'm going to go in and make and I'm going to go ahead and hit continue. 
 And it says you may experience significant performance impact when converting this database instance 
 to multi easy configuration. 
 This impact will be more noticeable on database instances with large amounts of storage and right intensive 
 workloads. 
 So you may want to do this if you are going to do this on a production database or you would hope that 
 your production databases are already multi easy. 
 But if you're going to do this you might want to do it basically in a scheduled maintenance window so 
 you could say apply during the next scheduled maintenance window or you obviously want to do it after 
 hours. 
 I'm going to play this immediately. 
 It does give me a warning that there's going to be some potential downtime. 
 But let's go ahead and hit modify and that's going through and modifying my database and if we click 
 on databases in here we'll be able to see the status currently says available but if I hit refresh you 
 can see it's now changed to modifying. 
 So I'm just gonna pause the video and wait for this to become a multi easy database. 
 I guess in my ideas instance is now available if I go ahead and click on it I'll be able to see in here 
 if we go to configuration and we scroll down you can see that multi AC has now changed to yes. 
 So this is a multi easy database. 
 And what we can actually do is if we go into actions and do a reboot we can actually reboot with fail 
 over and this is a way of forcing our Availability Zones to change. 
 So you can change from one availability zone to another by just rebooting and rebooting with failure. 
 I'm not going to do that when I am going to do as I'm going to go back to this database. 
 I'm going to go ahead and modify it again and what I'm going to try and do is turn on read replicas 
 now read replicas won't actually work. 
 And the reason for that is because I do not have my backups turned on just yet. 
 And you need to have your backups turned on to in order to do a raid replica and you won't actually 
 find an option to turn Reed replicas on in here what you actually need to do is go back to your databases 
 page and then in here if you click on actions you can see here create read replica but right now we 
 can't do that. 
 And that's the only reason for that is because we do not have backups turned on. 
 So let's go ahead and turn on backups. 
 So I'm just going to click in here. 
 Go ahead to modify or gonna turn on our backups by going all the way down to the bottom. 
 I'm going to do my retention period. 
 Your attention period can be up to 35 days. 
 So I'm going to turn mine on for 35 days and then I'm going to go ahead and hit continue. 
 And then that's going to modify this database and I'm going to apply it immediately. 
 This can cause some downtime so it is going to give you a warning. 
 And we can now see that that is now changing my database. 
 No click in databases and a refresh the status it is now modifying. 
 So again I'm going to pause the video and wait for my backups to be turned on and then we're going to 
 go ahead and create a red replica. 
 OK. 
 So that was a lot quicker than creating a multi a zero was only offline for a couple of minutes. 
 And if I click on actions now I can now select create read replicas if yours is still grayed out just 
 do a hard refresh of the screen so command are or control EF. 
 And then you should be able to see the create read replica so simply go ahead and create a read replica 
 note that you can change the destination region. 
 So I could have my read replica anywhere in the world and what I might do. 
 I think I'll just keep it in this region just to make it simple. 
 Do we want our read replicas to be publicly accessible. 
 I'm going to say no. 
 Do you want your read replica to be encrypted. 
 Do you want to enable encryption on it. 
 I'm just going to leave it as a no. 
 Do you want your read replica to have multi easy deployment. 
 I don't really care about that. 
 I'm just basically going to leave everything as the default options and I'm going to go ahead and hit 
 create read replica. 
 You will have to give it a name. 
 So a DP instance identifier I'm going to call it a cloud guru read replica. 
 So I know that it's a reed replica and then I'm gonna go ahead and hit create. 
 So that is now creating my Reed replica. 
 It's modifying this and then creating a new database instance down here which will have its own DNS 
 endpoint. 
 And notice the roll here. 
 You can see that we've got our master and then we've got our replica. 
 It's gonna pause a video and just wait for that to come back up online. 
 Okay so my red replica is now available I can see it in here and if we click on it and go ahead to our 
 actions we can actually see that we can now promote our read replica so we can make this our primary 
 another primary database and then we could add Reed replicas to it as well. 
 So feel free to go ahead and delete that Reed replica. 
 We're not going to be using it later on and you need to just type in delete me in order to do that. 
 It's gonna go ahead and delete that please keep your RDX instance however because we are going to turn 
 that into an aurora instance I'm going to look at how we can migrate from my sequel to Aurora. 
 That is a popular exam scenario so we're going to do that later on in this section of the course. 
 But first let's go ahead and have a look at my exam tips. 
 So just remember going into your exam there's two different types of backups for RDX. 
 We have our automated backups and they're going to be done in a scheduled maintenance window and then 
 we also have our database snapshots and they're taken manually and we have we saw how to do that earlier 
 on in this lab. 
 Moving on to read replicas these can be multiple Availability Zones and the use to increase performance 
 in order to have a read replica. 
 You must have backups turned on read replicas can be in the same region or in different regions and 
 they can be my sequel posts rescue l Maria D.B. Oracle and Aurora the only one you can't have a read 
 replica for currently is sequel server and they can be promoted to masters and when you do this it's 
 going to break the reed replications. 
 Please do bear that in mind as well with multiple availabilities own ideas instances just remember that 
 this is primarily Well it's only used for disaster recovery and you can force a fail over from one availability 
 zone to another by rebooting the D.S. instance. 
 And then finally just remember that encryption is supported for my sequel Oracle sequel server post 
 rescue URL. 
 Maria D.B. and Aurora. 
 So it's encrypted for all six of the engines. 
 Encryption is done using their obvious came as service and once your ideas instance is encrypted the 
 data stored at rest in the underlying storage is encrypted as are automated backups read replicas and 
 snapshots. 
 So I've learned an awful lot about relational databases in the next lecture we're going to look at dynamo 
 D.B. which is Amazon's non relational database so if you've got the time please join me in the next 
 lecture. 
 Thank you.