 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello lagers and welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture we're going to look at Amazon's Aurora. 
 So what is Aurora. 
 Well basically it's a my sequel compatible relational database engine that combines the speed and availability 
 of high end commercial databases. 
 The simplicity and cost effectiveness of open source databases and Amazon Aurora provides up to five 
 times better performance than my sequel database at a price point one tenth of that of a commercial 
 database while delivering similar performance and availability. 
 So Amazon actually built Aurora from scratch themselves. 
 It's completely compatible with my sequel as well as post Chris. 
 And it is pretty impressive technology. 
 So the things to know about Aurora is you can start with a 10 gig instance and it scales in 10 gig increments 
 all the way up to 64 terabytes in size and you'll compute resources can also be scaled up to 32 DCP 
 use as well as 244 gigs of memory. 
 Now the really cool thing about Aurora is that it always maintains two copies of your data in each availability 
 zone with a minimum of three Availability Zones. 
 So he's going to have six copies of your data spread across three Availability Zones so Aurora is only 
 going to be available in regions that have two sorry three Availability Zones. 
 So do bear that in mind. 
 It's not available in every region just yet. 
 And in terms of scaling Aurora it's designed to transparently handle the loss of up to two copies of 
 your data without affecting the database right. 
 Availability and up to three copies without affecting read availability. 
 So it is extremely highly available and at the time of recording I have not yet heard of an aurora database 
 going down. 
 Certainly not the Aurora service itself. 
 So it is got a really really good track record Aurora storage is also self healing and the data blocks 
 and disks continuously are scanned for errors and they're repaired automatically. 
 And then with Aurora you get read replicas as well and you get two different types you get the Aurora 
 replicas and there's currently 15 available and then you can also have my sequel read replicas of your 
 Aurora database and there's currently five and this is a table that compares the two so we've got our 
 Amazon Aurora read replicas and we've got our my secret database read replicas and just notice the automated 
 fail over. 
 You can automate a fail over from one Aurora database to an Amazon Aurora read replica and that is automated 
 whereas if you have a my sequel database as you'll read replica you cannot automate fail over for that. 
 Terms of backups with Aurora's automated backups are always enabled on Amazon Aurora D.B. instances 
 backups do not impact database performance and you can also take snapshots with Aurora and this also 
 does not impact performance and you can actually share your Aurora snapshots with other AWB accounts. 
 So I'm going to do now zoom just quickly going to pop over to the console and we're going to create 
 an a raw Reed replica of our RDX instance. 
 Okay. 
 So here I am in the obvious console you can see that my ideas. 
 Instance my read replica has been deleted successfully and what I'm going to do now is I'm going to 
 go in here. 
 I'm gonna go to actions and I'm gonna go ahead and create an aurora reader replica of my RDX instance 
 and this is gonna take my my sequel database and it's going to make it an A raw read replica and you 
 can create the replica in a different availability zone if you want. 
 I am going to do that. 
 I'm just gonna call my DB instance identifier a cloud guru Aurora and then I'm gonna scroll down. 
 I'm going to leave basically everything else is default. 
 I'm not going to turn on encryption I'm going to leave backups on for one day and I'm gonna go ahead 
 and create my read replica. 
 And so that is now creating an aurora Reed replica and you can see it in here. 
 So we've got a a Koga Aurora cluster and it's going ahead and creating my reader read replicas which 
 are a read replica of this. 
 So that is gonna take some time so I'm just gonna pause a video and wait for this to come back up online. 
 Okay so that has now finished and you can see here we've got our Aurora cluster and inside our cluster 
 we've got two nodes we've got a writer node and then we've got a reader node and you'll notice that 
 they're in separate availability zones and if we click on the right node and actually click inside it 
 we'll be able to see the DNS endpoint the writer node has a different DNS endpoint to the reader node. 
 So they are definitely separate databases in separate Availability Zones with separate DNS endpoints. 
 Now what you can do is you can go over to your right a note and you can go to actions and then you can 
 go and promote this read replica so you can go ahead and you can do this to the reader note as well. 
 I'm gonna promote this read replica I'm just go ahead and do that now. 
 That again is going to take a little bit of time but once that's done essentially what's happened is 
 that we have migrated our database from my secret database to an Aurora database simply by creating 
 a reed replica and then promoting that database to its own standalone database. 
 Another thing we can do is we can go in and take a snapshot of our Aurora database and then we can restore 
 a new broad database from that snapshot. 
 So there's a few ways in which you can migrate your my sequel workloads to Aurora but the great thing 
 is is it doesn't involve any you don't have to go in and copy from one database to another. 
 Amazon take care of it all for you. 
 You can do it all through the management console. 
 So feel free to go back to your databases section if you don't want to wait for that instance to be 
 promoted to a primary instance and feel free to go through and start deleting your clusters as well 
 as your my secret database. 
 We don't need them anymore so I'm going to go ahead and stop and hit stop. 
 And then I'm gonna go through and delete that as well. 
 Also don't forget to go over too easy to and to delete your easy to instance as well. 
 So onto my exam tips. 
 So going into your exam just remember what Aurora is at a high level. 
 It's Amazon's own proprietary database that's compatible with my school as well as post grad school 
 and two copies of your data is contained in each availability zone with a minimum of three availability 
 zones so you always have six copies of your data. 
 Remember that you can share Aurora snapshots with other AWB accounts. 
 And remember that there's two types of replicas available we've got a raw replicas and my cycle replicas 
 and automated failover is only available with Aurora replicas. 
 We also learned that what you can do migrations from my sequel to Aurora simply by creating read replica 
 and promoting it or you can do it by creating a snapshot and then restoring from that snapshot as well. 
 And then Aurora has automated backups turned on by default and you can also take snapshots with Aurora 
 and you can share these snapshots with other AWB accounts. 
 So that's it for this lecture goes in the next lecture we're going to go ahead and look at Elastic cash 
 and then we're almost finished. 
 This section of the course so if you got the time please join me in the next lecture. 
 Thank you.