 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clunkers. 
 And welcome to this lecture. 
 This lecture is on elastic cash and this is the last database service we need to cover in this section 
 of the course before we move on to our summary. 
 And then we can move on and learn all about Route 53 and networking. 
 So what is elastic. 
 And we did cover this off in the database one to one lecture but basically it's a web service that makes 
 it easy to deploy operate and scale in-memory caching in the cloud and the service improves the performance 
 of Web applications by allowing you to retrieve information from fast managed in memory caches instead 
 of relying on slower disk space databases. 
 So what does that actually mean. 
 Well essentially if you go to let's say Amazon dot com and you've got you go into I don't know the technology 
 department and you see the 10 top most purchased items what essentially is happening there is the easy 
 two instances they aren't making those or those queries back to an Aurora database what they're actually 
 doing is they're making those queries back to Alaska cache an Alaska cache is storing those queries 
 in there and it helps take off some of the performance impact because you're not constantly querying 
 your main production database for the same queries. 
 So you're going to cache your most queried information in Alaska cache and Alaska cache as a supports 
 to open source caching engines. 
 So we've got mem cache D and we've got readies. 
 So what is the difference between them cache D and red. 
 So when should you use one over the other. 
 Well if you just want a really simple cache to offload your database then you definitely want to use 
 mem cache D. 
 It's able to scale horizontally and you get multi threaded performance. 
 If however you're going to need things like advanced data types if you're going to need ranking and 
 sorting Data's if you're going to need pub sub so publishing and subscribing capabilities if you need 
 multiple Availability Zones or persistence or you need the ability to do backup and restores then you're 
 going to use Redis. 
 So if you want multi AC backups and restores and it's more sort of advanced data types then you're going 
 to use red you just want something simple and easy to get started with. 
 Then you want mem cache D so go onto my exam tips just remember the main thing you need to really understand 
 going into the certified Solutions Architect associate exam is the use case for elastic cache. 
 So it's use to increase your database and web application performance and a common exam scenarios will 
 be hey your database is overloaded what two steps could you take to you know to make this database perform 
 better. 
 One is to add a reed replica and then point your reads to your read replicas and then the other is to 
 use elastic cash at the certified Solutions Architect associate level you're not really required to 
 know the difference between mem cash D and read us but you definitely need to know it going into the 
 certified Solutions Architect professional exam. 
 Just remember that red US is multi easy and you can do backups and restores all varieties so that is 
 it. 
 This lecture everyone if you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next lecture where we're going to summarize everything we've learnt 
 in the databases section and then that is it for databases so if you got the time please join me in 
 the next lecture. 
 Thank you.