 
 WEBVTT 
 Okay. 
 Hello clubbers and welcome to this lecture. 
 So congratulations you're at the end of the databases section of the course in this lecture we're just 
 going to summarize everything we've learnt about our databases so we learn about ideas. 
 This is used for online transaction processing comes in six different flavors we've got SQL Server my 
 sequel post rescue El Oracle Aurora and Maria D.B. we then have Amazon's dynamo D.B. service this is 
 a no sequel database service available to us we are going to create our own dynamo db table in the service 
 section of the course we'll get more hands on with that we then learnt about redshift Amazon's data 
 warehousing solution and this is used for online analytics processing we then also learn about elastic 
 cache. 
 This comes in two different flavors of mem cache D and readies Mm cache D is used if we want something 
 very very simple whereas Redis is used for more advanced data types and if we need multiple Availability 
 Zones or if we need to be able to do backups in terms of relational databases just remember the following 
 points ideas runs on virtual machines and you cannot SSA H into these operating systems you cannot log 
 in. 
 She can't RTP using Windows and you can't SSA to your Linux operating systems and that is a really important 
 point to remember for your exams patching of the RDX operating system and database itself is always 
 going to be Amazon's responsibility because you do not get operating system level access. 
 Remember that RDX is not service. 
 However there's an exception to the rule or there's Aurora's service and that is service. 
 So almost everything in ideas is not service with the exception of Aurora service dynamo D.B. is service 
 however. 
 Remember there's two different types of backups for RDX. 
 We've got automated backups and then we've got our database snapshots. 
 So moving on to read replicas read replicas can be multi easy and they are primarily used to increase 
 performance. 
 And this is a very common exam scenario. 
 Basically you've got a struggling database. 
 It's got very heavy read traffic. 
 Maybe it's a WordPress blog or something like that. 
 How do you increase the performance on that database. 
 And one of the answers is of course to add read replicas and to point your easy to instances to those 
 read replicas. 
 Just remember to enable read replicas you must have backups turned on and read replicas can be in different 
 regions as well as the same regions you can have read replicas around different regions in the world 
 and read replicas can be my sequel post rescue Oh Maria D.B. Oracle and Aurora the only database engine 
 or RDX engine that doesn't support read replicas at this time is sequel server. 
 I remember that read replicas can be promoted to a master. 
 But when you do this it's going to break the reed replica so it's going to break the replication over 
 that multi easy is used for D R only it is not used for performance and you can force a fail over from 
 one availability zone to another by rebooting the RDX instance. 
 Remember that encryption is supported for my sequel Oracle SQL Server progress que el Maria D.B. and 
 Aurora. 
 Encryption is done using the AWB scam as service or key management service. 
 And once your audience instance is encrypted the data stored at rest in the underlying storage is going 
 to be encrypted as well as when you do automated backups read replicas and snapshots. 
 They're also all going to be encrypted as well. 
 Dynamo D.B. service. 
 Like I said it's stored on SSD storage. 
 It's spread across three geographically distinct data centers. 
 You have two different types of consistency remember the one second rule is you've got eventual consistency 
 so if your application is doesn't need to regional updated data within one second then you want eventual 
 consistency and this is what you get by default. 
 If however your application needs that data to be updated it always has to have a perfect copy of the 
 data and certainly within less than one second then you probably want strongly consistent reads. 
 Moving on to redshift redshift is used for business intelligence. 
 It's only available in one availability zone right now. 
 When you're doing backups redshift has backups enabled by default with a one day retention period just 
 like with RDX. 
 You can extend this retention period to 35 days redshift will always attempt to maintain at least three 
 copies of your data the original and replica on the compute nodes as well as a backup in Amazon S three. 
 Remember that redshift can also asynchronously replicate your snapshots to S3 in another region for 
 disaster recovery. 
 Moving on to Aurora Aurora is seriously cool. 
 It's always going to have two copies of your data contained in each availability zone with a minimum 
 of three Availability Zones. 
 It's always gonna have six copies of your data and you can store. 
 You can actually go ahead and take a snapshot of the Aurora database and you can actually share that 
 with other NWS accounts remember that two different types of Reed replicas are available. 
 You've got Aurora replicas and you've got my sequel replicas an automated failover is only going to 
 be available with your raw replicas and Aurora has automated backups turned on by default. 
 You can also take snapshots of the raw and you can share these snapshots with other AWB accounts which 
 is what I said earlier. 
 A plastic hash so remember that you use a plastic cached increased database and web application performance. 
 It does this by caching if you need multi a z then you're going to be using Redis if you need backups 
 then you're going to be using rhetoric. 
 So that is it for this section of the course goes if you have any questions please let me know. 
 If not feel free to move on to the next section. 
 Thank you.