<v Instructor>So, let's get right into creating</v>
a virtual machine in the Azure Portal,
it's portal.azure.com.
And I'm going to go ahead and create a virtual machine now,
but as I get into this, I should say,
I've recorded this type of video,
the Creating a Virtual Machine Video,
maybe 15 or 20 times over the years.
And so Microsoft is always adding little tiny UI changes.
They're subtle check boxes,
or they move something around, or they add a description,
so if your UI is slightly different than my UI,
don't let it bother you.
You can get through this,
it doesn't change that radically,
but there might be a checkbox here or there.
I'm in the Azure home screen
and I clicked on create a resource.
You can also click on the plus sign here on the left menu,
whether you use the fly out version
or you use the sticky version that I use.
Now, we're just going to create
a very simple Windows Server 2016.
It's the first item that comes up
when you create a resource.
Now, Microsoft has a wizard-type interface.
You can see there are seven tabs here
from basics, disks, networking, all the way to review.
And so, in this video,
we're going to create a very simplistic virtual machine
for the first time.
So, we're on the basics tab
and one of the first things you need to do
is choose your subscription.
Now, if you're just starting out on Azure,
you may only have one subscription
and it might say the free plan or your Pay-As-You-Go plan.
I happen to have a couple of subscriptions
for various purposes,
and so make sure you're working in the right one
that you intend to.
Now, as we said, resources within Azure
are organized into groups.
And so, almost every time we're going to create a resource
with few exceptions,
we're going to have to put it into a resource group.
So, I'm going to create a new resource.
And I typically like to label things with my initials.
Sometimes people like to do that too,
but I would recommend you give yourself a unique name here.
So, I'm going to say azsjdnewrg
and that is my resource group
that I encrypt my virtual machine in.
One of the first things we have to do is give it a name
and this name does not need to be unique
because it's not driving a URL quite yet.
So, we can call this
azsjdnewvm2020.
Now, the first major important decision we have
is the region.
So, if I open up this drop down box here,
we can see that there are a number of regions
that are organized under, recommended.
And again, these are sort of the primary regions
that Microsoft is working on.
And then if you scroll down, there are other.
So, if there's a region of the world
that you're looking for,
and that's not in the recommended section,
you should be able to find it in, other.
Now, for a virtual machine, you should probably keep
all of the virtual machine components in the same region,
it just makes things easier.
So, I'm going to pick East US 2,
it's one of the most popular ones.
Now, the next big decision we have
is whether this virtual machine
is going to be part of an Availability group of some sort.
The basic Availability group is called an Availability set.
And this is just a flag that lets Azure know
that this VM is going to be part of multiple other VMs,
two or more VMs,
that need to be kept physically separated
for maximum Availability.
So, the concept of Availability as if there's a,
let's say there's a storm, or a power outage,
or some type of a natural disaster,
you don't want all your virtual machines
to be clustered too closely together
because if one of them goes down, then they all go down.
And so, Availability set tells Azure
to keep the machines on separate racks,
maybe in separate data centers,
just keeps them separated a little bit physically
so that one thing is less likely to affect the other.
Availability zone is a higher level Availability
where you get to choose where to place the virtual machine.
So, I'm going to choose Availability zone,
and then I can place it in a data center, one, two or three.
Now, I don't know, in East US 2,
what data center one, two or three represents,
but if I place a virtual machine in one,
and then I place another one in two,
I'll know that they have been physically separated.
I'm going to say no redundancy.
Now, we did choose the Windows Server image.
There are literally dozens of images to choose from.
Lots of versions of Windows Server, Ubuntu,
lots of Linux versions, et cetera.
We won't get into that right now.
If none of these images
are anything that you're interested in,
there is a browse all option.
Now, this concept of the Spot instance, is relatively new,
and that this is a low priority instance.
And so, if you wanted to do something,
but you're not willing to pay the full price
for an Azure VM,
you can take your chance on getting a lower priority VM
that can be taken away from you
if somebody comes along willing to pay full price.
Think of this like a standby seat on an airline
where there's a chance you're not going to make the flight,
but you're taking that chance
so that you can save money on the standard standby seat.
Now, this has changed recently, this selection of the size.
So, Azure's going to pick a size for us here
and they actually seen your recently used sizes
so it knows that I choose the DS1 VM,
it gives me the pricing right here.
I can also choose some other images
that are quote-unquote, recommended.
And if none of them are what I'm looking for,
I can go into the select a size link
and that takes me to another screen
where I can basically filter on virtual machines.
There are literally 338 to choose from.
And you can basically set up a filter here
that will show you,
maybe you want so many CPUs,
or so much RAM, and stuff like that,
you can put filters together.
So, I'm going to close this out
and I'm just going to keep with the DS1.
Now, it's a Windows Server, Windows Server needs
an administrator, username and password.
So, I'm going to give my standard administrator name,
and I'm going to select my own password here,
and this is going to be used to log into the virtual machine.
Now, scrolling down a little bit,
we're still in the basics tab here.
We do have to choose
whether we want to allow traffic
to come into that machine from outside.
Now, we could turn it all off
and say no traffic allowed, but then me, myself,
are not going to be able to remote into that machine
so I do need to allow at least RDP, in this particular case,
so that I can get access to it from where I'm creating it.
Now, the last couple of decisions here,
if we have Windows Server licenses,
if we have an enterprise agreement with Azure,
and we have existing server licenses
that we've already pay for,
we can save a significant amount of money, up to 49%,
if we're just reusing an existing Windows Server license.
So, it's not that we're not paying for it,
it's that we've already paid for it.
In this case, I can say, no.
I'm not going to change any of the disk options.
If I did want to attach additional storage,
bigger D, E, and F drives, for instance,
I can create them here.
All virtual machines must live on a virtual network.
I do have existing virtual networks
and so I could add this VM to an existing one.
By default, it's going to create me a new one.
I'm going to let it do that.
We can see here, again, the same decision,
we're allowing the RDP port 3389 traffic to go
from the internet into this machine on this port.
I'll leave all this at the default.
Now, we do have the ability, this is relatively new,
to add this machine to an existing load balancer.
Now, I don't have a load balancer running,
but if I wanted to place this
against an existing load bouncer, I could do that here.
Now, this is where we set up monitoring.
I want to turn off monitoring for now,
we're going to talk about that later in this course,
but we can have logging on boot, the Windows logging.
I do like to use the enable auto shutdown option.
It's quite common, well, at least for me,
to create resources, and then forget about it,
and then a couple of days later, realize
that I'm spending, in this case,
it's $4 a day to create this server.
I mean, I can easily burn $10 just forgetting about it
so I do like to turn on the auto shutdown option.
It's a good safety feature.
I'm going to do this for 11:59 p.m.
We've got to choose my own time zone here, I'm in Eastern,
and now I don't need to be notified of that.
I can set up the backups here as well.
Going into this advanced tab,
I can set up PowerShell extensions,
I can set up the performance extensions,
I'm not going to do any of that.
If this was a Linux machine.
I can pass some cloud data, custom data,
and it would use cloud in it to start this machine up.
Now, dedicated host, we're going to talk about this
in a separate lecture, but just skip that for now.
Tagging, this is basically
if I wanted all the resources I'm about to create,
to have some sort of metadata to it.
This is custom, I created this environment,
I created this value.
All of the resources I'm about to create
are going to be tagged with this,
and so I can go back later,
and I'll have an understanding
of what I created this machine for.
Finally, I go to the review screen,
and you can see here that it passed validation,
and it's proposing to charge me 15 cents per hour
for the standard DS1 v2 instance
with a Windows Server license
and I do have ports open to the internet.
So, I'm going to be able to hit the create button.
This is going to go off and create me a virtual machine.
When we come back, we are going to look at that machine,
make sure it started, and remote into it.
