Now, it's important to point out that as much as we've been talking about Windows, virtual machines,
the same applies to Linux virtual machines.
There's only a couple of differences in creating Linux virtual machines, which I'll point out.
So when I go in to create a Linux virtual machine, we see the same wizard interface, same questions
in terms of giving it a name or resource group.
The big difference, of course, is in the image that you get to choose.
So I chose the Ubuntu server 18 zero four off of the menu, but I can obviously choose other options,
RedHat Souce, S.O.S, Debian, etc..
Of course, the Windows options.
If none of these are going to satisfy me, I can go into browse all images.
And again, if I choose a bunta in the search box, I can see we just working with 18, but they also
have 14 and 16.
If you know that Ubuntu does even numbers for their production version numbers.
And the odd numbers, I believe, are the development or test versions.
So we can see different images, some of them provided by Microsoft.
This is canonical, which is the steward for a to lots of different images.
When I started with Bunta, if I search for Linux, we got scaley Linux.
And so you're not only limited to the ones that Microsoft provides, not all versions of Linux are free,
by the way.
So that's another difference between what you'd expect.
There are license fees.
So if we go into Red Hat Enterprise Linux, we would see that there's a license fee for this.
Let me just look that up quickly.
Now, the pricing is built into the virtual machine.
We look at the Red Hat Enterprise Linux, we can see that BE1 series is around six point five cents
per hour.
And if I switch over to core Ubuntu Linux.
Scroll down again, we're down to half a cent per hour, so the open to the Red Hat, for instance,
adds six full cents per hour.
That's a license cost for the same instance.
Now, the other thing about virtual machines for Linux is Linux doesn't have the standard user I.D.
and password metaphor.
So what you end up with is basically an SS, each public key cryptography.
So you either have your own key pair that you are going to upload and paste into this box here.
You're going to have keys stored in Azure Key Vault or you're going to generate a brand new key pair.
So this is going to be my SJT Linux key pair and this is going to get generated by Azure for me.
I've got the root user.
So you log into Linux machines using SFH that you know.
And so that's different than the RTP model.
When you are then talking about ports, you're not talking about three three eight nine, which is the
RTP port.
You're talking about the port, which is twenty two.
So that's basically one of the core differences between Linux and Windows, as you still do have the
license fees, you would think you're getting rid of all license fees, but you're actually not for
a lot of the versions.
And then there's this S.H. metaphore, which as you will just go ahead and create for you, as opposed
to the DP admin user I.D. and password metaphore that goes through Port 20 to now Linux machines also
provide encryption by default, but it doesn't use bit locher.
Of course, this is called D.M. Creped.
And so that does encrypt the disk by default using a different D.M. Creped goes through to networking,
similar management.
Obviously, the way that Bhoot diagnostics happen, Windows would have its own.
Linux would be a different.
Now, extension's now Windows Virtual Machine would have, like you could install the script, powerful
script, an extension, and that will allow you to run a script song on Instantiation.
Well, Linux doesn't have the same one.
It's basically called Cloud in it, which is the Linux version.
So you can then pass those scripts to cloud in it.
It's a different metaphor than the Windows metaphor.
I haven't filled out any of these details and so it's not going to let me create this.
But those are basically the differences between a Windows VM and a less VM from the creation standpoint.
