<v Instructor>All right, we can see</v>
that this deployment succeeded
and I can, of course, go into here,
see all the resources that were created.
And if I go under Operation details,
it looks like it took about a minute and 28 seconds
for the virtual machine component to be created,
and that is an amazingly short time.
It wasn't two or three years ago
where it was four minutes, five minutes,
10 minutes to create a virtual machine
and Microsoft has really got that time down.
So a minute and 28 seconds to create a VM.
Now, once this deployment is complete,
we can simply say Go to resource.
Now, we can see in the resource itself,
within the virtual machine,
we have all of these tabs along the left here.
These are blades that are where we have our settings
and for all the various components
of the virtual machine.
So in this course,
we are going to go through quite a number of them.
We won't view every single setting on every single blade
but we'll cover the ones that are important
and that are going to be covered by this exam.
We can see here that the virtual machine
is in a running state.
I did create this prior to today, so it did shut down.
I had to start it up again.
We'll see that in the monitoring in a second.
It does have a public IP address
and so Azure has assigned an IP to this.
I will be able to connect to this using RDP
from my desktop across this IP.
Now, if I click into the IP address,
I'm taken to another configuration
that is specific to the IP address.
And you can see the interface has completely changed here.
And in fact, I can give a DNS label to this IP.
You can see there's a fully qualified domain
that can be filled in.
So I can call this azsjdmynewserver.
And it will verify with the green check mark
that no on else is using this.
I can say Save
and now I can refer to this machine,
using a fully qualified domain or the IP.
Now, I want to go back to the VM,
so I'm just going to go up to the breadcrumbs here
and click on the previous breadcrumb.
So it's running East US 2,
exactly where we placed it.
It has a public IP address I can actually refresh
and I believe it will update the DNS name,
which it has.
We can see it's running on a virtual network, of course.
The size that we've specified.
Now, this recently has changed.
If we scroll down on the overview screen,
or we use this double arrow to close it,
we can see a new tabbed output here
and now it's sort of getting a little bit deeper
into the details of the virtual machine.
We can even see the Windows SKU
that it's running the version of the agent
that is running on top of the virtual machine.
The agent is the interface software
between Azure and the VM.
We haven't set this up for any kind of availability.
We can see the private and public IP addresses, et cetera.
Scrolling to the Monitoring tab, we can see again,
I just started up this machine a few minutes ago
and we can see a sort of a spike in network utilization.
I would expect to see a spike over here
but it might take a moment to refresh, okay?
We can see some shortcuts too.
So if we want to set up the auto-shutdown feature.
We want to enable Windows updates on this machine
or turn it off.
Azure Bastion is a much safer way to connect
to a machine other than RDP
but we'd have to install a Bastion server on this network.
So maybe the first thing we're going to go to
is the Connect menu item.
Now, the connect menu item
does give us the option to connect through RDP,
which is the Windows machine default.
SSH would be more for a Linux server
and Azure Bastion, like I said,
has to be set up.
It's a separate service
that allows you to connect to machines
through a browser without having to open the ports.
So there is a security concern
of having an RDP or SSH setup.
But we can see here, the RDP,
clicking on RDP takes us to this screen
where we can then download the RDP file.
The RDP file downloads to my downloads directory.
I can simply click it
and then I will use the Windows Remove Desktop
on my computer to connect to this machine.
I did create a separate administrator user ID
and password, so I have to go under different credentials
than the credentials that I'm using for my own computer.
And hopefully, you remember the user ID and password
for logging into this.
You do have to accept the security certificate.
And then we're going to see the familiar RDP setup screen.
Now, this is the first time I'm logging into the server
and so there is some user profile
that has to be created for my user, et cetera.
So it does take a bit longer
to log in the first time you do it.
And also, keep in mind that this machine
that I created was a DS1,
so it's not even a very powerful machine
and so it is going to take a bit longer to log in
than a four CPU or an eight CPU server might.
When we log into Windows,
we get this Server Manager pop up,
and this is where we can set this machine up
for its role within our solution.
So if we needed to set up IIS
to make this a web server,
we can go and simply add the IIS role.
Do we want this PC to be discoverable?
Let's say no.
This is the Windows sharing protocol.
We can block that for now.
It's still setting up the server.
We can see there's already some services that are there.
Hopefully I can click Add roles now.
Scrolling through this,
if you're at all familiar with setting up Windows,
we can find the Web Server IIS role.
Click on that.
Add that as a feature.
And then it'll ask us specifically about IIS,
which version of .NET we want,
what other services the IIS can control,
FTP servers and SMTP and all those other services.
We can turn that on.
Mostly leave it off.
And within the IIS function itself,
what other features of IIS.
Now, again, we're setting up Windows the same way
you would set it up
if you installed it locally.
So I'm going to leave all the defaults there and say Install.
And at the end of this process,
we're going to have this running as a web server
and we could hopefully even visit the URL
within our web browser and see that the server
is now responding with the default IIS home page,
which we can let that run
and I'll show that in a second.
So that took a few minutes to install IIS
and we can see here,
I started the task manager.
The server is not super happy.
It's running at 100% CPU utilization.
So we could, yeah, it's going to drop down a little bit.
So let's quickly look at the installation of IIS.
We're going to go open a web browser
and I'm just going to say localhost.
We can see IIS is running.
And if we minimize this,
I can copy this to the clipboard.
Start a new web browser
and paste the URL of this server into the browser.
Now, it may be that I don't have the port 80.
It might be that I don't have port 80 open actually.
And that's going to make a good next video.
So let's talk about opening up ports
so that the server can communicate with the world.
