<v Instructor>So we can see that there's a problem.</v>
We were able to access the virtual machine's IaaS server
from inside the virtual machine
on the localhost
but we are not able to access that server from outside.
And so I'm going to pull this aside
and we're going to look at the virtual machine.
Now, the way that security works
is that a virtual machine has to be part
of a virtual network and a subnet.
A virtual machine has a network interface card
and so it is the connection
between the network interface card and the subnet
where the security happens.
And it can happen at either end.
It can either happen at the subnet level
or it can happen at the network interface card level.
So if I go into the subnet,
click on the virtual network,
I can see the virtual machine is a connected device.
I go into the subnet.
Click on Default, and I can see
that there is no network security group attached
to the subnet side of that connection.
So I'll go back to the virtual machine,
into Networking instead.
And this is the network interface card.
Azsjdnewvm2020375 is the network interface card
and this is where we can see
that there's an RDP as an inbound rule.
We need to add port 80 as an inbound rule.
So there's a big blue button
that says add inbound port rule.
I'll switch over to the basic view
and I'm going to choose HTTP.
I'm going to rename it to Port_80
and we're going to say Add.
And so now, this network interface card
and the network security group attached to it
should allow port 80 to come in.
So we can see the rule has been successfully created.
I will go back to Overview
and back to Networking or to refresh the screen
and we can see port 80 is now allowed traffic.
So let us see if refreshing this is going
to bring up the IaaS screen.
And if I had a drum roll device,
I would say drum roll, please.
And refreshing again, brings up this IaaS screen.
So in this video, we saw that it may not work
if you try to install a new service
that's listening on a new port.
It may not work at first
until you actually go
under Networking and add a security role.
So we've proven that this machine works.
Now, one of the unsatisfying things
about this machine right now
is how underpowered it is.
It's currently one CPU and 3.5 gigabytes of memory
and it took a long time
to log into it and it look a long time to install IaaS.
It's a very underpowered computer.
And do the purpose of this demonstration,
I think my next demo is going to be upgrading this
to a more powerful machine.
