<v Instructor>So looking at this machine,</v>
we can see that it was created
with 126 gigabytes of what's known as a C drive
and then there's also the small Temporary Storage.
I'm going to minimize this.
Let's go enter the Disk settings.
So we can see that there's only one disk.
It is the operating system disk, 127 gigabytes was the size.
That was part of the DS2 image that I chose from.
It comes with 127 gigabytes of operating systems disk.
Now, for many people, that is not going
to be sufficient for their purpose.
You might not even want to install things
or have your data stored
on the same drive as your operating systems
and so this is what you do is you create data disks.
So if we go under the virtual machine, under Disks,
we say Add data disk.
And we do have to create what is known
as a managed disk.
And so if I click on this dropdown,
I say Create disk.
It takes me to a new screen.
I have to give it a name.
So azsjddatadisk.
It's going to go in the same resource group.
It is in the same location.
It makes sense.
You want your data disks to be in the same location
as your virtual machines.
Now, do we want this to be taken from a snapshot?
Do we want to copy the contents of a storage blob?
Let's create it as a blank disk.
Now, we do get to choose the size of this disk.
So you see the default here is 1,000 gigabytes
or one terabyte.
Premium disks or managed disks do come
in pre-defined size units.
So in this particular case,
you're not paying for usage,
you're paying for the reservation.
And so if you just need a 256-gigabyte disk,
it's in your best interest
to only reserve that size
and not go, try to get the biggest one you can
because you can paying for it,
whether you use it or not.
This is the difference between a managed disk
and an unmanaged disk.
An unmanaged disk just charges you for the gigabytes used.
It gives you a five-petabyte bucket
that you can fill and you just pay for gigabytes used,
whereas a managed disk, you pay
for whatever you choose,
nevermind whether you use it or not.
So 256 seems like a good size for me.
You can also see the I/O operations per second.
So this is how fast you can push this disk.
Obviously, if you only have a small amount of data
but you need a lot of operations per second,
this might force you to a larger size.
All right, so 256 gig.
I'm going to say OK.
Now, what kind of encryption do we want this?
Now, it's recently a change in the way Azure works
is that these disks are encrypted by default.
And so by default, your data disk
is going to be stored in Azure Data Center
as an encrypted disk.
That means that if someone's able
to make a copy of the physical VHD file,
then they're basically not going to be able
to do anything with it
unless they get the key,
which will be stored separately, of course.
Now, you can also manage the key yourself,
using Azure Key Vault.
So the only other option you have here
is to manage the key yourself.
I'm going to leave it as the default.
So now, it's going to go off
and create this data disk as a resource.
It'll appear in my resource group.
Now, the reason why this is a separate operation compared
to the virtual machine
is that the data disk
can actually outlive the virtual machine.
And so I've created this as a separate item.
It's sitting in my resource group.
And I am attaching the database
to this virtual machine.
And if I ever wanted to,
I could detach it and reattach it
to some other virtual machine.
So I'm going to say Save.
And so now the virtual machine is being reconfigured
so that we will have a 256-gigabyte data disk.
Now, we're not going to see it right away.
If we go into the RDP session,
we can see that, and hit Refresh,
the number of disks hasn't changed.
We are going to have to go into Windows.
We're going to have to go into Create
and format hard disk partitions.
And when we start that up,
immediately it realizes that there's a new data disk
that needs to be initialized.
And so I can make sure it's good and say OK.
Now this disk is present in the bottom part here.
I'm going to have to right click it
and say a New Simple Volume.
It's going to allocate all of the size.
And it's going to assign a driver letter.
So we're going to have an E disk once this is complete.
NTFS file system, which is fine.
I'm going to call this EROOT.
And say Finish.
So now we have a new 256-gigabyte disk
that appears in Windows Explorer even
and we can now start storing data on that.
And like I said, we can then go back to the portal.
And any time we don't want this machine
to have this disk anymore,
we can detach it and then we have to go into an edit mode
in order to detach it.
And then we can reattach it to another VM.
So this'll be a good way
of let's say you've got lots of large files
that you need to copy between two machines.
This is one way of doing that,
although there's probably better ways for that
but this is obviously one way to do that.
