<v Instructor>Now one thing that we're not going to see</v>
in this setup is the concept of availability.
Now, when we create the virtual machine,
we could have chosen to place it in an availability set.
And then placing two or more virtual machines
into this availability set would have signaled to Azure
to keep these machines on separate
fault domains and update domains.
I'm going to demonstrate that but in order to do that,
I'm going to have to create a new virtual machine.
So we'll go to the dashboard, create a resource,
I'm going to go back to Windows Server 2016,
going to give the virtual machine a name so AZ New VM 2021.
Now the availability is going to depend on the region, okay?
So in Central US, we can see that we have the choice
between no availability and availability zone
and availability set.
If we were in a different region, say North Central US,
then the availability zone is grayed out
because North Central US does not support this feature.
So let's create this as an availability set to start.
So I'm creating a brand new VM,
I've chosen availability set.
And since I don't have any existing availability sets,
I have to create a new one.
I say, "create new," and I have to give
the availability set a name.
Now the basic concept of an availability set
is that there are fault domains and update domains.
Fault domains are effectively physical failure points.
So this is the power supply.
This is the internet access.
This could be a physical hard drive that fails, right,
all hardware eventually fails.
And I've had computers where the power supply has died,
and you have to go and buy a new one.
So by default, we have the choice
to place our availability set across two fault domains.
So effectively, that means that no matter
how many VMs we have, they're going to be divided evenly,
across two sets of physical hardware,
where as the chances of them both failing
are relatively low, so one power supply might fail,
but the chances of two power supplies failing
are basically exponentially less likely.
Now, the concept of update domains is effectively
the updates that Azure deploys to its own systems.
So you can have anywhere from one update domain up to 20.
And the default, as we saw was five.
What this means is that as Azure rolls out updates
to the Azure platform, it's going to do it
one set of servers at a time up to 20.
So it's basically breaking out all of the Azure environment
across the world and divided them
into 20 different update domains,
I guess it's done region at a time.
So 20 different update domains in a single region.
And so I'm saying, well, I don't need that many,
I'm going to only have five and so that,
so the implication is that
if you've got 10 virtual machines,
you're going to have five virtual machines
in each of the fault domains and two virtual machines
in each of the update domains.
Hopefully that makes sense.
So this basically, it doesn't do anything other than,
a physically separate out your virtual machines
from each other inside of the data center
and also logically separate them so that they're
not a chance of them being down at the same time.
Now, I would then go ahead and create this,
in the normal way.
In order for this to be any good,
I need to create a second virtual machine
and place it in the same availability set.
One more virtual machine running and availability set
doesn't do anything to increase
the availability of your environment.
But having two or more actually increases it.
And I say this not just as a theoretical exercise,
it's actually written into the Service Level Agreement
for Virtual Machines.
So if we go into this documents,
you can search your favorite search engine for SLA
for Virtual Machines, and if we go into here and we say,
"For all virtual machines that have two or more instances
"deployed in the same availability set,
"we guarantee you will have virtual machine conductivity
"to at least one, 99.95% of the time."
So that is the financial guarantee
that Microsoft is speaking to you
if you follow this availability set model.
Now the availability zone model,
which I'll show you in a second increases that to 99.99.
So effectively cuts the downtime in half.
Now you can get an SLA for single virtual machines,
but it really depends on whether you're using premium,
standard or basically premium standard
or physical hard disk for your virtual machine disks.
So I'm not going to continue this
but this is how you create availability set.
This is the only way to place a machine
in an availability set.
You cannot play some machine in an availability set
after you've deployed it.
