So in this lesson we're going to talk about logic apps where functions are small pieces of code that
you execute in the cloud.
Logic apps are more like workflows that can tie those pieces of code together so you can take a number
of functions and chain them together using a logic app logic apps also integrate with many other Azure
services and even external services so that you can have one step leading to another with logic and
evaluation along the way.
Let's demonstrate that we have to give the logic at a name.
Now logic apps don't natively have a you are also you'll see that this name just has to be unique within
the resource group.
We're going to use the existing subscription.
I'm going to put this logic app into its own resource group.
You can choose an existing research group if you wish.
Logic apps just like any service need to be put into a region.
And so I'm going to put that into the central region.
Now if I want to expose the logs of this logic app into log analytics which is Azure is universal logging
and analysis platform I can do that but I'm going to leave that up for now.
That's as simple as it is you could give it a name and a location and then you could create now this
empty logic app only took around eight seconds to create.
So creating a logic app is really quick we can go into the logic app that we created now because it's
empty.
It's taken us directly into the logic apps designer.
So this is sort of the first view we have of creating applications inside our logic apps.
Container the next lesson we're gonna start by creating a simple logic app.
