So the next server list technology that we're going to talk about is called Microsoft event grid.
Now event grid is another one of these event driven server list applications that basically listen for
any one of a number of events and then pass that information on to a number of listeners or handlers.
So it's basically purely a glue between events that happen and types of programs that can handle those
events.
So we see here this diagram sort of the classic event grid diagram that we can detect events that happen
within blob storage media events.
I'm going to skip to event hubs IO T hub service bus queues and we can create our own custom events.
So if you've got applications that can then fire off events then those events get detected by event
cue and passed on to other things.
Now you might wonder well functions can detect blob storage changes in logic apps can detect a lot of
storage changes so why do we need a event grid.
Well in that particular case maybe you don't need the event grid but if you do not need a logic app
you might want to connect a blob storage directly into a queue with no logic app or function in between.
Then you can use an event great to trigger to take the the event that occurred and create a new message
in a queue relating to it.
Right.
So let's put this aside and go into the Azure portal.
Now before we can work with events then we need to make sure our subscription can handle it.
So we go into go into subscriptions here choose our page you go subscription.
In my case your case might be different and we want to go down to resource providers.
Now we want to make sure that the event grid resource provider is registered and in this case it is.
So we should be able to use event grid on this account.
Now to create a degree in event grid so let's go into these three drop dots here this is all services
and we're going to put the word event grid.
Now we have the options between topics and subscriptions.
Let's go into the subscriptions view now.
Right now we don't have any advance subscriptions.
So we're going to create one.
Now we're going to be taking into the basic Ed.
There is of course an advance header which is code based and as well as some additional features.
What are we going to be listening for.
Remember we had that diagram that basically shows us the types of topics so that we can subscribe to.
So we're gonna go and we're going to choose the resource groups.
Okay.
So really we want events that relate to resource groups says choose a subscription and I'm going to
choose my subscription now which resource group do we want to listen to.
Let's go into the logic app resource group that we created for the last video now What events do we
want to be notified right now by default.
We ask to notify us for all events.
Now that it's actually something that we would be interested in but let's uncheck that and then we can
see the types of events that we can listen to.
For a resource group we've got nine events.
Three for writing three for deleting and three for any type of action so let's let's say we want to
be notified when somebody tries to delete a resource that's our event grid action here.
So it could be success or failure or the deletion got cancelled before it could succeed or failed.
I want to be notified of any of these now the next question is Where do we want this event to go to.
So let's bring this diagram back.
We see that we can basically trigger it function trigger a logic app some type of batch automation any
you are L based so we can call it just to your owl even if it's not hosted with an Azure add a message
to a queue go cross the hybrid subscription and get into our internal environments or even trigger an
event in an event hub.
So in this case let's call the logic app.
So even though we're creating this in the logic app let's go into here.
And we want to use a web hook and it's gonna ask us to enter the endpoint.
Now remember we were playing with that logic app and so I'm going to paste you are all of the logic
app into here so a piece of the logic app that we just create.
Now I know the logic applied create doesn't actually do anything to process deleted deleted resources
but for the sake of this demonstration let's say we wanted to call that you are Ellen.
Let's pretend that our logic app actually could act upon it.
Send me an email.
I mean s a s message us etc..
So we're gonna say that's OK now basically we've got our source for the event we have chosen which types
events we want and we know who's going to handle the event.
Okay we give it a name so let's call this the monitor deleted resources events and letters numbers and
dashes.
Okay so we have to not have spaces in it.
And the schema.
There are only two types of schemas.
That is the Microsoft standard which is the which is a predatory standard that contains this is the
format of the data that comes in from the event or there's an open source cloud event schema which is
basically an open source so type of event schema.
Let's choose the event grid schema unless we have a reason to use the open source one and could create.
So now it's basically subscribing us to the event where in time in this resource group an event gets
created it's deleted I mean we should call the logic cap with that.
Now I have to go in to resource group search and we can see that the Monitor deleted resources is running
and it will call our logic cap whenever we delete something within this resource.
Now I know it's a fairly simple example but again the event grid is meant to connect things like this
any type of subscription Resource Group event that happens to some other thing.
So it's basically just connector between between two event event creator and event handler.
