So in this lesson where are you talking about the Azure service plus now the service buses it's sort
of an all encompassing platform.
Microsoft calls it messaging as a service or M A S.
You can see the logo has a little envelope symbol and so that represents the ability for applications
to send messages to each other.
The most popular a famous service plus service is called the service plus q and that allows one application
to put a message into the queue and another application to read that message or for applications to
subscribe to a topic and basically have a one to many type of communication platform.
Service plus also allows you to have hybrid communications so you can have services running inside your
firewall in your on premises network and using the relay service applications that are running outside
your firewall can connect to the service bus really and pass messages inside your firewall.
So let's imagine you have an API inside your firewall protected by security but you need to access that
API from outside.
You can set up a really that will allow that communication to occur without having to modify your firewall
the messaging operation basically similar to events actually allows you to decouple your application.
So having an app one application able to send an app a message to another application is a way of designing
applications to be independent and not having such tight coupling which could make it harder to test
harder to deploy etc..
The alternative of course is the event method where were your applications fire off events.
You can have a custom event in event grid that passes that onto something else.
So this is the messaging metaphor.
Let's create our first service plus namespace.
Now you can see that the euro is fully qualified it's got got service plus the windows dot net.
So the name that I give it has to be unique across Azure.
And I call it that as new service and that'll be that service plus one of the new.
Now we need to select a pricing tier.
There are three pricing tiers currently.
Basic standard and premium.
Now the premium tier Obviously Microsoft is what recommends for production workload that comes to almost
nine hundred dollars a month over a hundred dollars a month.
For this type of messaging system.
But what you get for that is a dedicated capacity so that basically all of your messaging operations
operate under dedicated CFP you and other resources.
You get one megabyte messaging size of that premium level both the Qs and topics topics are the one
to many communication where cues are one to one communication and you do not have a limit to your or
your messages per month and then that is capped out at a fixed pricing so you can basically have no
idea what to expect now I'm going to choose the basic basic only allows queues and it runs at about
6 cents Canadian per million messages per month which is super cheap.
As long as you're testing capacity right.
So we're going to create a basic pricing here for this demonstration goes on my subscription page you
go.
I'm going to put that into my logic app Resource Group because that'll make it easy to clean up at the
end of this and I'm going to choose the central U.S. region just like I usually do.
And we're gonna say create All right.
So we have our service plus namespace.
Let's go into it.
A minimize this so we get maximum screen real estate so we can see it much like many of the Azure services.
We have an overview screen here and there's some pretty graphs that'll tell us how many requests how
many messages are passing through.
You can imagine in a production environment where applications are using this all the time to pass messages
back and forth between each other.
Then you're going to want to know how crazy it is whether the resources are going to be a number etc..
OK.
So this is a basic cue.
We don't have topics that we can create.
The one to many conversations can happen under this basic cue but we can create a basic level.
Q And I'm going to call this sort of test.
Q The Q can have a size.
We can have a maximum age for a message the maximum time their message is allowed to stay in the queue.
I'm going to see two days the lock duration so a lock is basically when an application pulls a message
then that message is locked so that other applications can't pull the same message.
The application has 30 seconds in the setup to confirm that it's read the message and acted on the message.
We can make that lock something like two minutes and that gives it plenty of time to do its work and
then confirm that it's acted on the message and the message can be deleted.
You'll see some interesting settings here like duplicate detection so that the same message does not
get inserted in the queue twice.
Dead lettering basically so if we have a message that never gets successfully delivered to any receiver
then it goes into a dead letter.
Q And those are basically messages that cannot be successfully processed.
And we're going to create.
So we could put this this Q
So you've got a chance to win sir.
Q was successfully created.
We can go into it here and we can see here.
When open the essentials that it has a you are out we created the service.
The service has a namespace which is fully qualified and the queue is that namespace slash the Q Name.
This is the URL we would use in our programs and applications in order to insert messages into the queue
and basically be able to read messages from the queue.
So that's basically how we create our service plus.
Q It does support other security settings like a shared access policy where we can setup basically policies
for other applications where we read and write to this queue.
It's got scaling options to go to a standard tier if we wanted to the ability to do disaster recovery
on the premium level etc. So service plus the service plus overall is a messaging platform supports
cuz it supports a really service etc..
