
<v ->First, let's talk about RDS.</v>
So, RDS we know what it is, we've seen it in-depth.
It is managed PostgreSQL, MySQL,
Oracle, MariaDB, SQL Server, all that stuff, okay?
And we've seen how it works, we must provision
an EC2 instance and EBS Volume,
so that happens behind the scenes,
Amazon does that for us,
but specifically what happens.
And then we tell Amazon the instance type we want,
and the EBS Volume type and size, and all these things.
And then, Amazon provides us a database where to go.
Now, we don't have direct access
to this underlying EC2 instance,
but this is what happens in the back-end.
Now this has support for Read Replicas and Multi AZs,
so Read Replica allows us to scale reads,
Multi AZ allows us to save and recover from disaster.
And security we've seen it, it's done through IAM,
Security Groups, KMS for encryption at rest,
and SSL for encryption in transits.
And sometimes, Postgres and MySQL will have
IAM authentication as a feature.
There is also a feature of doing backups,
snapshots, point in time recovery feature,
which is really nice.
And there is managed and scheduled maintenance,
so our database is kept up-to-date by AWS.
The monitoring can happen through CloudWatch,
so this is pretty much all you should know
for RDS, which is already a lot.
And so, use cases would be RDBMS/OLTP,
so to store relational data sets.
So remember OLTP, Online Transactional Processing.
And then, from it, we can perform SQL queries,
ad-hoc queries basically, and we can do transactions.
So, transactional inserts, updates,
deletes, is an available feature.
So now, what I want to show you is just RDS
but from a solutions architect perspective.
So, the well architectured framework
has five pillars, and so what I've done is like,
comparing RDS to the five pillars.
Just so we get a really good understanding
of how they are.
So operations is, we have a very small downtime
when a failover happens, and when maintenance happens.
And when we scale reads, or EC2 instance,
and EBS restore that implies manual intervention.
So that means that we still have
to do a few operations on our RDS databases.
And then when there is a change,
maybe we have to do an application change as well.
In terms of security, AWS will be responsible
for OS security, for the EC2 instance security,
but we are responsible for letting know to use KMS,
to configure the security groups correctly,
to set up the IAM policies correctly,
and authorizing users in our database,
and enforcing SSL encryption.
In terms of reliability, well there is this
multi AZ feature, and it's done automatically for us,
so there will be a failover in case of failures.
And that makes RDS particularly reliable.
Now, if you don't use multi AZ,
then you have a risk obviously, of having some outages.
Performance will depend basically on the
EC2 instance type you provisioned for your RDS instance,
and as well as the EBS volume type,
so do you want to use a gp2 or io1?
And then if you want to scale and perform some reads,
then you need to add Read Replicas.
And RDS, in that case, doesn't auto-scale.
So it's not something that's super cloud native,
it's still something that we have to provision
and scale manually, and basically,
adapt based on our workload.
In terms of cost, it is very simple,
you're going to pay per the hour,
based on the provisioned EC2 instance type,
and the EBS volume.
So, I like to view a technology and databases
in this light, because it really
gives us five pillars to work against,
and really evaluate the database technology.
And I'll do this for all of the rest
of the databases in this section.
So, hope you liked it, and I will
see you in the next lecture.