
<v Instructor>So people may think</v>
it's funny to see S3 in a database section.
I think S3 is a database.
It's not a conventional database,
but to me it's definitely a database.
Why?
Because we put data in S3 and we retrieve it.
That makes it to me a database.
So at the core, S3 when you think about it,
it's a key value store for objects,
and so that means that when we do create
a key, an object, you know it's a long key,
the full path to the object, and then the value
itself is the object itself.
And so that makes it a database,
and so what we get out of it is that it can be used
to store and retrieve objects.
Now, the recommendation on S3
is that it's great for big objects,
big files, because there is more latency.
It's not so great if you have many small objects,
so in that case S3 does not replace RDS,
or it dos not replace DynamoDB,
because in RDS and DynamoDB you get small objects.
But if you want to have infinite storage,
serverless, and you want have object size,
you know values, to be up to five terabytes,
then S3 is a great database for these things.
So you're gonna query maybe a movie,
so you're gonna store all your movies there.
It's gonna be your movie database,
and maybe each movie's gonna be 500 megabytes,
S3 is the place to put your movies,
it's where you store your movies in the database.
Okay, what do we get for S3?
We get eventually consistency for writes, overwrites,
and deletes, but for new objects, we get strong consistency.
In terms of tiers, we've seen this at length.
We have S3 Standard, S3 IA for Infrequently Accessed,
One Zone IA so one abilities on if we complete accessed,
and then we can use Glacier for backups.
In terms of features, we get tons of it.
We get Versioning, Encryption,
Cross Region Replication, and so on.
Security, it's all managed through IAM,
but on top of it we can add Bucket Policies and ACLs
at the object level,
and encryption, we have so many options.
We get SSE-S3, SSE-KMS, SSE-C, and client side encryption,
and for in transit we can use SSL or HTTPS.
So when do we use S3?
Well I think it's pretty clear from this course,
Hopefully by now you should know.
It's static files, but also a key value store
for big files or website hosting.
that makes S3 a great candidate.
So S3 from a solutions architect perspective,
operations, it's magical, you don't need to do anything.
It's there, it's available, it's all the time here.
You don't need to provision servers,
or do whatever you want.
For security, it's self up to you to manage it,
so please define your IAM policies correctly,
your Bucket Policies, your ACL,
make sure that encryption is done correctly
based on your requirements on server and clients,
and then make sure you're using SSL
for encryption in flight.
Reliability is huge, so we have 99.999999 durability
and 99.99 availability,
so its makes it a really reliable store for your data.
You also have Multi AZ, so by default
all you did is replicated across Multi AZ,
and you get CRR for Cross Region Replication,
if you wanted to put all your Bucket contents
into another region just in case.
Performance is amazing, you can scale
to thousands of reads and writes per second.
You can get transfer acceleration
if you use CloudFront, and you use multi-part
for big files to make sure they're reliably put into S3.
Finally for cost, you're going to only pay
for the storage you actually use, so you don't need
to think about how much storage you want to provision.
That makes S3 an infinite storage store,
and then you're only going to pay as well for network cost,
so the bandwidth to transfer and retrieve the data,
and then finally, if you do a lot of requests
on S3, you're going to get billed for that as well.
So S3, it doesn't look like a database
at first sight, but to me it is a database.
Hopefully you are convinced that it is a database for you,
and it just has a very specific use case
and we've seen this in this lecture.
So I hope that makes sense,
and I will see you in the next lecture.