So in this video we're gonna talk about the Azure portal.
Now I do realize there are a wide variety of experiences for people taking this course.
And so if you have some experience with the portal you've customized your portal you might feel free
to go ahead and skip this video and move on to the next.
And that's perfectly fine too this is your course and your you're free to basically skip ahead to the
parts that are relevant to you but if you don't have much experience with Azure or not because no experience
at all then this is the good place to start.
Now I do want to point out that the home for Microsoft Azure is Azure dot Microsoft dot com.
And from here you're going to find all of the links to various pages on the Azure services you're going
to find documentation on how to do things and pricing things like that.
So Azure dot Microsoft com is a good place to start if you want to find documentation.
Now the portal itself is portal dot Azure dot com.
Now once you've created your free account which we talked about in a previous video or you have your
existing account and you log in you're going to receive a screen similar to this but not exactly the
same as this.
Why is it not exactly the same well the portal is customizable.
I can modify the color settings the themes so I can go from the the basic theme to a darker theme to
totally black theme.
It's all personalized from from your point of view.
You can also choose whether you want this home screen to be your default or whether you want a customized
dashboard to be your default.
You can also have a default mode for the menu.
So right now we've got this flying mode which puts everything under this hamburger menu but you can
actually switch back to the fixed menu which takes up a bit of real estate.
You'll see most of this course has videos with this in that fixed mode.
And so I'm actually going to leave it there yeah.
Basically this is totally customizable.
If we look at the dashboard now I'm going to I'm going to close the settings screen here and go into
the dashboard.
Now my dashboard and your dashboard are going to look somewhat different because I've added a few of
these tiles to help me to manage my account.
I can see resource groups resources the cost of incurring this month so far etc. Now you can have multiple
dashboards.
Right.
So basically you can just create brand new dashboard put some tiles on there.
This little plus sign here allows you to create a dashboard or the pencil allows you to edit the dashboard.
You're going to be able to customize that so for the rest of this course you're going to see various
iterations of this.
There'll be a darker view or a lighter view and the menu is going to be in this flight configuration.
Don't let that be confused.
This course absolutely requires you to have an Azure account and hands on experience.
You'll see various places in the course that will encourage you to do hands on labs.
And so I will encourage you to stop the video pause the course and go off and try some of the things
that you're seeing here.
