Now in this section we're gonna get into one of my favorite topics of Microsoft Azure which is virtual
machines.
Now as you know we can create both Windows and Linux virtual machines hosted in Azure.
I'm going to start off by creating a Windows server virtual machine now in the last few months.
Microsoft has changed the interface for creating a new virtual machine.
So seeing this might you might be unfamiliar if you haven't created a virtual machine in a little while
this actually gives me more.
It reminds me of the W.S. method of creating virtual machines the way that these taps are set up.
But that's that going to create a virtual machine the first thing to do is choose your subscription
and choose your Resource Group.
Got to give the virtual machine a name a Z new a VM.
There's the rules that pop up cannot contain non ASCII characters must be unique for the resource group
and only one to 15 characters long.
Now the region that you choose the virtual machine on.
I mean all of regions of Azure support virtual machines but there are different there's different support
for availability depending on the region you choose.
So I'm going to choose central U.S. because I'm going to show you availability zones and a little bit
if I was to choose e U.S. it does not have the availability zone feature.
So as your new VM in the central U.S. availability options roll right off the bat we can see that we
can set this up into an availability set or we can set this up into an availability zone.
I'm not going to touch that for now but when we get into the talking about availability we're going
to have to readdress this the image I would get a second chance to change our mind in terms of which
type of us operating system are going to install everything from windows 10 Windows Server 2008 12 to
16.
And as for different flavors of Linux so I'm going to keep 2016.
Now this little box here is where we get to choose our instance type.
Okay.
So if I said change size we get up the dozens and dozens of options that we have for creating instances.
Now there are also filters on here so right now it's a size small generation current general purpose
premium.
We can basically there are 150 hundred and fifty VM sizes and we can basically filter down what we need.
Let's see add filter.
And we're going to want something that has between 1 and 4 CPE use
1 0 this.
This is a slider one for use.
OK.
So now we've basically were showing 12 options for virtual machines.
Now when I'm working in a development space I usually go into the B instance family.
Right.
B Since family is sort of the general purpose virtual machine but it's really underpowered when it comes
to ram.
OK four for a one CPO VM you get one gigabyte of RAM if you were to go into the D series especially
a D S series down here we can get a one CPM machine but it comes with three point five gigabytes of
RAM.
So this is more of a production style server if you were to do a one CPO server.
This is more of a development and testing type server side to choose B one m s that contains once if
you've got two gigabytes of RAM and twice the throughput in terms of operations per second so be one
M.S. This is the usual question of creating a user was
creating user I.D. in password.
Now we're gonna get a couple of chances here to talk about the ports by default no inbound ports are
enabled.
It used to be Microsoft did enable the RTP port by default but even now it doesn't do that anymore.
You have to go into here and select if you want to be able to Windows remote desktop into here.
You have to be able to you have to open up port 3 3 8 9 if you intend to use this as a web server.
You have to open up the issue to be ports.
If this is a Linux machine and you want to SSA into it there's a port for that too.
Now don't forget that you can save money if you have an enterprise license for Windows and you are able
to use one of your licenses for your cloud servers then you can use hybrid benefit and the cost of this
server would drop pretty dramatically when you create a virtual machine.
You do have the option of having additional disks.
So it comes with what's go back here.
It comes with four gigabytes of temporary storage which is on that on the machines operating system
disk.
But if you want to have a lot more storage you're going to have to set up a separate disk so you attach
a disk in each of these disks have prices associated with it.
It's going to create a brand new network by default.
We're not going to talk about networking at this point but we could create a vignette or attach it to
an existing vignette.
Have basic or advanced network security groups.
Remember we already chose the inbound ports and so this is the second opportunity for us to set which
ports are open.
We can always go back and change this and accelerated networking.
Basically this VM size does not support it but accelerated networking is the ability for two machines
running on the same network to be able to talk to each other at a much faster pace than if it used a
standard networking.
And again the only certain VM types have that.
But basically it bypasses the normal Microsoft networking setup where the traffic has to go out to the
virtual network and then go back through a network interface hop back into the server so a lot less
hops if you have accelerated networking the diagnostic settings.
So do we want a diagnostics to be set on for this machine.
Do we want to setup as a system managed identity so that it can run we can use role based access control
to manage the permissions of this thing.
I always like to use auto shut down so I'm going to choose my region which is minus 4 I believe minus
5.
Now and I want to see 5 p.m. This machine is going to shut down and we talked about backups we can turn
on your back backups right within this configuration we don't need to worry about a virtual machine
extensions at this point tagging.
We talked about this is very important for costs.
And so if we wanted to put environment dev for instance as a tag it will take all resources with that
next we get us lovely summary that will tell us we're going to be paying three point six cents per hour
for this virtual machine and we basically then agree to that
and now it's going to go off and do that now because it has to create networks storage the virtual machine
itself IP address etc. This is going to take a bunch of minutes and so this deployment underway you
can see that it's going to basically be real time.
It's going to start tell us about which resources are being created and when they are and we can see
the status of this song and pause this will come back when the virtual machine is up.
