So like I said there are many different types of experiences of people taking this course.
And so if you've never created a virtual machine before this is your first exposure to it.
This would be a good time to log into the Azure portal.
Remember it's portal dot Azure dot com.
Log into that and then go and create yourself a virtual machine resource.
Now if you're within that first month of the free plan you can create a virtual machine any of any type
essentially if you are past the first month and you still on the free plan.
There is only one virtual machine that you're allowed to create but basically go create a virtual machine
we're only gonna have it alive for a few minutes.
OK we're not going to have this machine around for days and days just create it explore it log into
it and then we're gonna delete it after.
Now the Resource Group question it's just an organization structure it's like a folder on your operating
system.
It's a way for you to sort resources into a related projects.
So a lot of people would use this as a project name so you can see you know public Web site this name
has to be unique to your account.
So it's not across all of Azure.
You can just follow the defaults here give it whatever name you wish in the region that's closest to
you.
You can skip over the redundancy diversion of virtual machine doesn't matter.
The operating system version you know we're doing a Windows virtual machine right now.
So any version of Windows is fine.
Again the size doesn't really matter but you don't necessarily want to pick a thousand dollar machine
because you are going to incur a few dollars of costs it's either coming off of your your free account
limit or it's coming off of your credit card or your your company's credit card.
So choose a smallish virtual machine one simple use find a DSA one B one m s and create yourself your
first virtual machine.
Ok don't forget what I said about if you want to RTP into it you have to open the port for it.
Basically you can you can set all the defaults going along.
Now the only the only caveat is that we're going to end up deleting it after so I'm going to show you
now how to delete a virtual machine once you're done playing with it so we can see that the machine
was created in about three and a half minutes extremely fast.
Good job Microsoft.
If we go to the resource we can see that the delete button is just at the top here so we can connect
to it.
This will give us our RTP file.
We can stop the machine which will stop the charge for this service except for the storage and then
we can just delete it.
Now what I prefer to do because there's a number of resources that get created.
I prefer to delete the whole resource group.
So if I go into resource groups here on the left I'll open this up resource groups.
We created our resource group that was called a public Web site.
I go into the resource group level member.
This is a folder structure.
We can see that six resources got created when we created our virtual machine.
There's the machine there was the the disk in which the Veatch to get stored at some networking items
the security so we can then delete the entire resource group and that to me is the safest way.
So I go delete Resource Group.
You have to type in the name of the Resource Group to delete it.
But this is just going to clean up all of these things and we're going to want be sure that we're not
going to be incurring any charges.
So I created this virtual machine and put it in its own resource group when I was done with it at the
minimum.
You want to stop the virtual machine but you may even just want to clean up after yourself by deleting
the Resource Group.
So anyways if you haven't done so go ahead stop this course pause the video create yourself a virtual
machine and when you're done with it stop it and or delete it and then come back to this course and
we'll continue on.
