All right.
So in this lesson we're going to talk about monitoring of your Azure victims.
Now you'll recall that when we were setting up the VMs we did have some diagnostics and monitoring options.
Let's go down to diagnostic settings for the virtual machine.
Now Azure monitoring allows you to get deep into the VM and monitor you disk.
Network usage and basically we have to turn on guest level monitoring in order for the data to be pulled
out of the virtual machine.
So think of this as a service running in windows at the virtual machine level.
And so we do need to allow that that service to send its data outside of Azure
so that took a few minutes and we can see that we have access to the diagnostics now that we've enabled
it.
This is very reminiscent of the monitoring section of this course.
I would say you want to go back and review that basically even go into any of these tabs and enable
what types of data you want your virtual machine to send back to Azure.
So we can have those specific performance counters.
We can have windows event logs and various warnings critical errors et cetera.
How you configure yes and field requests logs your dot net application can trigger off events and that
gets bubbled up et cetera.
And so remember that we can then go into the log analytics and into Azure monitor and be able to review
what's going on with your account.
You also always have the ability to look at metrics.
Microsoft has changed there the way that they're doing these graphs so there's a new a new style there's
also metrics are being deprecated and brand new metrics are being added.
We can look at the data read and we can add a new metric in terms of the data right now we just build
ourselves a graph that's very relevant to us.
And then when we we want we can pin this to the dashboard if we ever want to see data in data out for
this particular virtual machine that basically becomes report that we can come back to by pinning it
to the dashboard we can export to excel etc..
OK so that's how we do monitoring within virtual machine.
