Now Azure has recently come up with the concept of dedicated hosts dedicated host is effectively physical
servers that you can reserve for your own use.
So the way that Azure has Azure app service that can be isolated you can now have virtual machines that
are similarly isolated.
If we flip over to the documentation we can see that there is a two concepts here.
One is called a host group.
Now this is very much like a Resource Group.
It is basically just a collection of these dedicated hosts the dedicated host itself is mapped to a
physical server in Azure Data Center.
So you've got your physical server and you're going to obviously going to pay for that server that can
be dedicated for your own use.
Each server can host multiple victims of different sizes.
As long as they're from the same series.
And so when you create a dedicated host you're effectively reserving computing power that you can then
create virtual machines to run on.
Now there are some considerations for dedicated hosts and those related VMs that have not really applied
to virtual machines.
First of all you can mix Availability Zones and fault domains so you can host your server your physical
server in a specific single availability zone.
And so any virtual machines that are created on that host are onto that zone but you can also choose
a specific fault domain.
So if you've got multiple victims in the same availability zone you can also specify that those machines
are on different racks such that a power supply failure or a network failure on that particular cluster
or rack doesn't affect all your hosts.
So the host itself can be set on to a fault domain and then you can work them both together.
Now this is not something that you can do with virtual machines but with dedicated hosts you can actually
specify fault domains even within an availability zone.
Now it gets very interesting when we look at the details we said previously that when you get the physical
server and a dedicated host you are restricted to a single virtual machine series.
So if we look down at this table we can see there are three series the DSK series the E S series and
the FSA series that we have to choose from.
And once we make a choice the only VM that we can make on that physical server are the D series in this
case we have between D2 s all the way up to D 64 s.
Now we can see here how Microsoft Maps physical CPR course to the virtual CPR course that we always
talk about.
So 40 physical CPR course map to 64 virtualize.
There's also 256 gigabytes of RAM on this.
Now in a virtual machine environment what you're doing is you're splitting the virtual CPR use and then
Bill Ram between these machines and so what you basically have to do is let's say you have 64 CPR use
while you can only create 64 CPR use worth of virtual machines.
So that could be two of the D 32 s.
So those two together have 32 course each and that adds up to 64.
Or if you're doing D eight series then you have eight of those you can create three you see that there's
basically it has to add up to 64 scroll down a little bit we can see some examples so we can have this
64 virtual CPR machine and that allows us to have a 16 D 2s and eighty fours or two D 69 and one D thirty
two.
It's up to us.
We can configure the VM is running on this thing however we wish.
Now in terms of pricing it's going to be rather pricey.
We're looking at around four dollars an hour depending on which machine you get four dollars to 450
per hour.
And that works out to over three thousand dollars a month.
Right.
So 24 hours a day it's almost 100 dollars a day.
And then that's go for a month that's three thousand dollars.
You cannot do reserved instances for these at this time.
So three thousand dollars a month gets you a physical machine that you can run any number of virtual
machines on up to a maximum of 64 CPE use worth.
Now you also have to pay for Windows.
So if we look at the windows licensing if we have 16 vert VM running on that machine we'd have to pay
73 cents an hour each for for license.
We can look at different you know Red Hat Linux a lot of these Linux ones will be free obviously.
But if you're going for the enterprise grade SJP Hannah Linux there's a fee for that of course.
So dedicated hosts could be used when you want dedicated physical machines that will guarantee that
you would not be affected by any other as your customer.
