The next requirement of this exam says to implement and manage hybrid identities.
Now the concept of hybrid anything within Microsoft Azure basically is a combination of on premises
services with Microsoft Azure services.
So hybrid identities is the concept of having an on premises identity provider that integrates with
Azure Active Directory.
I go into these settings option of Active Directory I can see Azure a disconnect as being one of the
options.
This screen contains a number of things that you can set up in order to implement hybrid identity.
The first option is synchronization.
The concept of synchronization is that you have an an Active Directory a Windows server Active Directory
on premises that already contains the user I.D. and passwords and other information about all of your
corporate users.
You can then synchronize that information into Azure Active Directory and in this case Azure Active
Directory becomes an extension of your already existing user I.D. and password model.
But for the cloud you'll see it tells me I have to download the Active Directory connect software so
I will take you to a page like this where you have to basically download a version of I connect and
basically you're going to install that inside of your network and have to set that up so that it can
synchronize with the Active Directory Azure Active Directory running in the cloud.
So that is the foundation of installing and configuring a disconnect once you've got that going it will
do a synchronization and you can basically understand that the same users that are registered in your
on premises Active Directory can then use those user I.D. and passwords in the cloud.
And if they change their password inside of the network then that change gets propagated into the cloud
automatically.
That's not instantaneous but it's fairly low latency shows.
Now take that a step further so lets that's sort of the basic level of synchronization the basic level
extending your on premises identities into the cloud and hybrid model.
We want to get you on the fence here.
We can implement something called Federation.
Federation.
The entire whenever you see this word mentioned when it comes to identity it's the concept of letting
another system that is not this system handle the user I.D. and the passwords.
And you basically trust that system if that person is able to log in in the other system then then you
can basically trust they are who they are and where they say they are.
So in this case with Federation you can instead of synchronizing the passwords into the cloud.
And then when they log in to cloud the password is checked into a cloud based directory.
If you did Federation then you would not have these users in your user table.
But the the authentication would be done by your on premises server and then it would report back that
the person successfully signed in and you're able to go on and use them.
So federation is almost an alternative to synchronization because you're basically not trusting the
local local in the case in this cases.
On the cloud copy of the passwords but you're basically sending them to the on premises to get authenticated
the single sign on an option is the concept of you know you've already logged in let's say you log into
your windows computer at work and it's on the network then to be able to access the to be able to access
cloud based applications and not have to sign in.
Right.
So the seamless part is that you do not have to put your user I.D. and password in every single place
that you need to use it is the fact that the server recognizes that you're already signed it.
So if we go into this option if we had on premise system means configured then we could say oh we want
to allow people who signed in using this domain for those those keys are basically going to be synchronized
and not the passwords right.
So those and then pass through authentication.
Again so much of federation is the the user instead of logging into this active directory is passed
through to the on premises server or another authentication agent.
And then when they successfully authenticate it then the Azure Active Directory accepts that as being
a valid thing.
So these are your hybrid identity options within Microsoft Azure.
